nb rational synergy reference
http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/synhelp/v7m2r0/topic/com.ibm.rational.synergy.reference.doc/topics/sc_r_h_use_ratlsyn.html


nb placebo neurotransmitter psychiatric drug iatrogenic mental illness
Angell, M.  20110623.  The epidemic of mental illness: Why?  New York
review of books.
http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2011/jun/23/epidemic-mental-illness-why/?pagination=false&printpage=true

For children, the rise is even more startling—a thirty-five-fold
increase in the same two decades.  Mental illness is now the leading
cause of disability in children, well ahead of physical disabilities
like cerebral palsy or Down syndrome, for which the federal programs
were created.

The categories were “anxiety disorders,” including, among other
subcategories, phobias and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD);
“mood disorders,” including major depression and bipolar disorders;
“impulse-control disorders,” including various behavioral problems and
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD); and “substance use
disorders,” including alcohol and drug abuse.

About 10 percent of Americans over age six now take antidepressants.

What is going on here?  Is the prevalence of mental illness really that
high and still climbing?  Particularly if these disorders are biologically
determined and not a result of environmental influences, is it plausible
to suppose that such an increase is real?  Or are we learning to recognize
and diagnose mental disorders that were always there?  On the other
hand, are we simply expanding the criteria for mental illness so that
nearly everyone has one?  And what about the drugs that are now the
mainstay of treatment?  Do they work?  If they do, shouldn’t we expect
the prevalence of mental illness to be declining, not rising?

Companies that sell psychoactive drugs—through various forms of
marketing, both legal and illegal, and what many people would describe
as bribery—have come to determine what constitutes a mental illness
and how the disorders should be diagnosed and treated.

The brain contains billions of nerve cells, called neurons, arrayed in
immensely complicated networks and communicating with one another
constantly.  The typical neuron has multiple filamentous extensions,
one called an axon and the others called dendrites, through which it
sends and receives signals from other neurons.  For one neuron to
communicate with another, however, the signal must be transmitted
across the tiny space separating them, called a synapse.  To accomplish
that, the axon of the sending neuron releases a chemical, called a
neurotransmitter, into the synapse.  The neurotransmitter crosses the
synapse and attaches to receptors on the second neuron, often a
dendrite, thereby activating or inhibiting the receiving cell.  Axons
have multiple terminals, so each neuron has multiple synapses.
Afterward, the neurotransmitter is either reabsorbed by the first
neuron or metabolized by enzymes so that the status quo ante is
restored.  There are exceptions and variations to this story, but that
is the usual way neurons communicate with one another.

When it was found that psychoactive drugs affect neurotransmitter
levels in the brain, as evidenced mainly by the levels of their
breakdown products in the spinal fluid, the theory arose that the
cause of mental illness is an abnormality in the brain’s concentration
of these chemicals that is specifically countered by the appropriate
drug.  For example, because Thorazine was found to lower dopamine
levels in the brain, it was postulated that psychoses like schizophrenia
are caused by too much dopamine.  Or later, because certain
antidepressants increase levels of the neurotransmitter serotonin in
the brain, it was postulated that depression is caused by too little
serotonin.  (These antidepressants, like Prozac or Celexa, are called
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) because they prevent
the reabsorption of serotonin by the neurons that release it, so that
more remains in the synapses to activate other neurons.) Thus, instead
of developing a drug to treat an abnormality, an abnormality was
postulated to fit a drug.

Prior to treatment, patients diagnosed with schizophrenia, depression,
and other psychiatric disorders do not suffer from any known “chemical
imbalance.” However, once a person is put on a psychiatric medication,
which, in one manner or another, throws a wrench into the usual
mechanics of a neuronal pathway, his or her brain begins to function…
abnormally.

For obvious reasons, drug companies make very sure that their positive
studies are published in medical journals and doctors know about them,
while the negative ones often languish unseen within the FDA, which
regards them as proprietary and therefore confidential.  This practice
greatly biases the medical literature, medical education, and
treatment decisions.

Altogether, there were forty-two trials of the six drugs.  Most of them
were negative.  Overall, placebos were 82 percent as effective as the
drugs, as measured by the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D), a widely
used score of symptoms of depression.  The average difference between
drug and placebo was only 1.8 points on the HAM-D, a difference that,
while statistically significant, was clinically meaningless.  The results
were much the same for all six drugs: they were all equally unimpressive.

In his earlier study and in work by others, he observed that even
treatments that were not considered to be antidepressants—such as
synthetic thyroid hormone, opiates, sedatives, stimulants, and some
herbal remedies—were as effective as antidepressants in alleviating
the symptoms of depression.  Kirsch writes, “ When administered as
antidepressants, drugs that increase, decrease or have no effect on
serotonin all relieve depression to about the same degree.” What all
these “effective” drugs had in common was that they produced side
effects, which participating patients had been told they might
experience.

An active placebo is one that itself produces side effects, such as
atropine—a drug that selectively blocks the action of certain types of
nerve fibers.  Although not an antidepressant, atropine causes, among
other things, a noticeably dry mouth.  In trials using atropine as the
placebo, there was no difference between the antidepressant and the
active placebo.  Everyone had side effects of one type or another, and
everyone reported the same level of improvement.  Kirsch reported a
number of other odd findings in clinical trials of antidepressants,
including the fact that there is no dose-response curve—that is, high
doses worked no better than low ones—which is extremely unlikely for
truly effective drugs.

Putting all this together leads to the conclusion that the relatively
small difference between drugs and placebos might not be a real drug
effect at all.  Instead, it might be an enhanced placebo effect,
produced by the fact that some patients have broken [the] blind and
have come to realize whether they were given drug or placebo.  If this
is the case, then there is no real antidepressant drug effect at all.
Rather than comparing placebo to drug, we have been comparing
“regular” placebos to “extra-strength” placebos.

If psychoactive drugs do cause harm, as Whitaker contends, what is the
mechanism?  The answer, he believes, lies in their effects on neuro-
transmitters.  It is well understood that psychoactive drugs disturb
neurotransmitter function, even if that was not the cause of the
illness in the first place.  Whitaker describes a chain of effects.
When, for example, an SSRI antidepressant like Celexa increases
serotonin levels in synapses, it stimulates compensatory changes
through a process called negative feedback.  In response to the high
levels of serotonin, the neurons that secrete it (presynaptic neurons)
release less of it, and the postsynaptic neurons become desensitized
to it.  In effect, the brain is trying to nullify the drug’s effects.
The same is true for drugs that block neurotransmitters, except in
reverse.  For example, most antipsychotic drugs block dopamine,
but the presynaptic neurons compensate by releasing more of it,
and the postsynaptic neurons take it up more avidly. (This explanation
is necessarily oversimplified, since many psychoactive drugs affect
more than one of the many neurotransmitters.)

As quoted by Whitaker, the brain, Hyman¹ wrote, begins to function in
a manner “qualitatively as well as quantitatively different from the
normal state.” After several weeks on psychoactive drugs, the brain’s
compensatory efforts begin to fail, and side effects emerge that
reflect the mechanism of action of the drugs.  For example, the SSRIs
may cause episodes of mania, because of the excess of serotonin.
Antipsychotics cause side effects that resemble Parkinson’s disease,
because of the depletion of dopamine (which is also depleted in
Parkinson’s disease).  As side effects emerge, they are often treated
by other drugs, and many patients end up on a cocktail of psychoactive
drugs prescribed for a cocktail of diagnoses.  The episodes of mania
caused by antidepressants may lead to a new diagnosis of “bipolar
disorder” and treatment with a “mood stabilizer,” such as Depokote
(an anticonvulsant) plus one of the newer antipsychotic drugs.
 ¹ Steve Hyman, a former director of the NIMH and until recently
provost of Harvard University.

One well-respected researcher, Nancy Andreasen, and her colleagues
published evidence that the use of antipsychotic drugs is associated
with shrinkage of the brain, and that the effect is directly related
to the dose and duration of treatment.  As Andreasen explained to The
New York Times, “The prefrontal cortex doesn’t get the input it needs
and is being shut down by drugs.  That reduces the psychotic symptoms.
It also causes the prefrontal cortex to slowly atrophy.”

Getting off the drugs is exceedingly difficult, according to Whitaker,
because when they are withdrawn the compensatory mechanisms are left
unopposed.  When Celexa is withdrawn, serotonin levels fall precipitously
because the presynaptic neurons are not releasing normal amounts and
the postsynaptic neurons no longer have enough receptors for it.
Similarly, when an antipsychotic is withdrawn, dopamine levels may
skyrocket.  The symptoms produced by withdrawing psychoactive drugs
are often confused with relapses of the original disorder, which can
lead psychiatrists to resume drugtreatment, perhaps at higher doses.

iatrogenic: inadvertent and medically introduced

Eli Lilly’s best-selling antipsychotic, Zyprexa, makes people sleep
twelve, fourteen hours a day.  Those using it move about somewhat
slowly and seem emotionally disengaged.  Many gain huge amounts of
weight—twenty, forty, sixty, and even one hundred pounds.  Often their
blood sugar levels soar, and so do their cholesterol levels.  A number
of those using it—including young children and teenagers—become
diabetic in fairly short order.  The reason it causes such global
dysfunction is that it blocks a multitude of neurotransmitter receptors
in the brain—dopaminergic, serotonergic, muscarinic, adrenergic,
and histaminergic.  All of those neuronal pathways in the brain are
compromised.  Meanwhile, MRI studies find that over a period of
several years, the virus shrinks the cerebral cortex, and this
shrinkage is tied to cognitive decline.

Jason Catena:¹ Despite all these horrible side effects (that led those
in clinical trials against an inert placebo to figure out they got a
real drug, and so broke the double-blind test), apparently it and all
the other recent expensive atypical antipsychotics are proven by
studies on file at the FDA to be no more effective than active
placebos with no supposedly-antipsychotic mechanism.
 ¹ graphics/angell_2-062311_jpg_230x900_q85.jpg
