nb function agilecomplex program
Harms, A.  20110904.  Functional agile: how does it work?
http://myagileeducation.com/2011/functional-agile-how-does-it-work

angelaharms: So I was thinking in the shower about how agile technical
practices and functional programming both aim for something like
“good” code, but then it occurs to me that—no surprise—“good” doesn’t
tell me much.
	I want to listen to what each “side” is excited about—not for
“niceness” or for getting along or for unicorns and rainbows,
but because I am all juiced about both, and I want to share that juice
so I have more people to play with.
	My first thoughts are that functional talks about correctness,
and agile talks about utility.  Functional programmers want clarity of
vision, I think, with a precise understanding of the solutions they
create, so they’re as simple as they can be, reusable and composable.
And maybe agile developers are thinking about extensibility,
maintainability, helping coders with stuff like staying focused,
learning new stuff, avoiding getting buried in complexity.
	I am guessing each would smile heartily at the things that
motivate the other.
	The thing that got me excited this morning was noticing that agile—
even the technical practices—is about people.  Pair programming, test-
driven development, specification by example, and continuous
integration are strategies for getting working, extensible, maintainable
code, given that we are creative beings, going through life reaching
for treasures without being able to predict the results of what we do.
I call us mistake-makers; we poke at things and sometimes like what
happens.  We have brilliant days, and low energy or sad or un-brilliant days.
We often don’t know what a solution will look like until it begins to
take shape, and our solutions often involve learning, collaboration,
discovery.
	Here’s what I want to know: how do collaboration, discovery,
emergence of solutions, and other agile values fit with functional
programming?  And as agile devs become fascinated with functional
programming, what changes?  Does this mean they leave their agile
peeps behind?  Or does the new functional stuff they’re discovering
become part of their agile world?

catenate: I program functionally because I can’t stand to look at
complex code.  At the very least, I replace every for loop I can with
a map, reduce, or filter of a function over a structure of data.
This allows me to stub out the function with a debugging one, or call
the function with controlled input data.  In turn, this allows me to
develop incrementally, and write the minimum bit of code that could
possibly work.  This also fixes the interface between the code and the
data it’s working on, which leads to more modular, easier-to-
understand code, composed of parts which are hopefully so simple
they’re obviously right.  I can chart my progress on these little bits
through something like kanban, where I have many parts in backlog,
a few (never more than 5 or so) ready to write, just one or two
in-progress, several that are complete and pending acceptance,
and then finally an archive of completed work.  This serves me well as
a consultant, where work is relatively small and piecemeal,
and completion of it changes priorities and what is possible in the
given time.  The upshot of all this is that having a library of
functional bits to work with well complements for me working in an
agile approach.  (I prefer kanban over scrum, because kanban limits
work in progress, easily works with constantly changing priorities,
and measures throughput of small units to predict performance rather
than relying on estimates.)

angelaharms: @catenate What an astounding answer! Thank you!

kaleidic: @catenate I agree with @angelaharms; your answer on her blog
is particularly clear and useful.


nb grill vegetable cook time
http://literature.mhsc.com/vc_grills/manuals/20303021_VCS310_Users_1.pdf

Asparagus	325–350°F	6–8m	Cut off ends of stems. Lay across  the grills.
Beans	325–350°F	30–35m	Wrap in foil with butter or margarine. Turn over once.
Carrots	325–350°F	20–30m	Cook directly on the grill.
Cob Corn	325–350°F	25–35m	Soak in cold water for 15 minutes. Cook with husk on.
Eggplant	325–350°F	6–8m/side	Cut into slices and coat with oil. 	
Mushrooms	325–350°F	6–8m	Cook directly on the grill.
Onions	325–350°F	40–45m	Wrap in foil. Turn over once during cooking.
Peppers	400–450°F	15–20m	Remove charred skin before eating.
Potatoes	325–350°F	50–60m		Wrap in foil. Turn over once.
Garlic	325–350°F	30–40m		Cut off top of bud and lightly coat with Olive oil. Wrap in foil.
Tomatoes	325–350°F	5–7m	Cut in half and coat in Olive oil.
Zucchini	325–350°F	6–8m/side	Cut into slices and coat with oil.


nb music jukebox afroman got high
Afroman.  Because I got high.


nb music jukebox superman kryptonite
Kryptonite: Will you still call me Superman?


nb music jukebox superman kinks
The Kinks.  (Wish I could fly like) Superman.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fUT9KQ-LuaU


nb music jukebox captain america fall kinks
The Kinks.  Catch me now I'm falling.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gCR83LxGKkg


nb music jukebox kinks come dancing
The Kinks.  Come dancing.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gs2kFrGluKs


nb music jukebox kinks lola
The Kinks.  Lola.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nVXmMMSo47s


nb music jukebox kinks paranoia self destroyer
The Kinks.  1981.  Destroyer.  Give the people what they want.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WSbSueq_KSY


nb music jukebox cathedral evanhalen guitar solo
Van Halen.  Cathedral.  Diver down.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z2WRGVJLZu0


nb music jukebox video svai crossroads
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=atw6F47UCYM


nb music jukebox rjohnson kitchen
Robert Johnson.  Come on in my kitchen.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4up4VP8zjyc
