nb plan9port rsc
Plan 9 from User Space
http://swtch.com/plan9port/


nb organize religion practice human nature
http://www.economist.com/blogs/babbage/2011/04/science_and_faiths

A religion like yours, on the other hand, harnessing mankind’s deep-
seated proclivities, will continue to thrive…


nb india english dialect
http://www.santoshgs.com/blog/186/quirks-of-indian-english/


nb jenkins intro use case continuous integration tool
http://altdevblogaday.org/2011/04/21/meet-jenkins-he%E2%80%99ll-do-your-boring-jobs/


nb ruby pipe idiom grep awk wc sed
https://github.com/grosser/pru


nb produce digital music market sgoldmann
http://www.littlewhiteearbuds.com/feature/everything-popular-is-wrong-making-it-in-electronic-music-despite-democratization/


nb gnu screen tutorial keyboard command
Kemp, S.  20041017.  Using GNU screen.  Debian administration.
http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/34

screen	Run a new screen session.
screen -R	Reattach to a previously detatched session.
Ctrl-a c	Create a new window.
Ctrl-a k	Kill the current window—after confirmation.
Ctrl-a Ctrl-a	Switch to the other window.
Ctrl-a S	Split the current window in two.
Ctrl-a TAB	Move between split sections of the screen.
Ctrl-a A	Give the the current window a name.
Ctrl-a "	List all windows—move around to change the window with the arrow keys.


nb dropbox free paid user convert rate economy cloud storage cost startup fund
Woloszynowicz, M.  20110420.  The economics of Dropbox.
Web 2.0 development and business lessons.
http://www.w2lessons.com/2011/04/economics-of-dropbox.html

With that in mind it looks like Dropbox needs a conversion rate
somewhere in the 1.8% to 2% range.  Since freemium conversion rates
run anywhere from 0.5% to 5% this is neither a low nor high hurdle,
and is certainly attainable.  Dropbox's challenge is that these
numbers will constantly shift as they depend heavily on the speed at
which free users convert vs. how quickly new free users sign up and
consume their space.  If the rate of new sign-ups drastically outpaces
conversions, then Dropbox will need to seek further venture financing.
The final thing to consider is that Dropbox's total funding is in the
$7.2M–$10M range.  Given the high burn rate of $3.1M–$5.8M per month,
Dropbox must have a good base of paid users already as they wouldn't
be able to survive on outside financing alone.


nb open source apache tika parse file format convert text xhtml sax
Woloszynowicz, M. 20110123.  Why are you still making crap?
Open source to the rescue.  Web 2.0 development and business lessons.
http://www.w2lessons.com/2011/01/why-are-you-still-making-crap-open.html


nb open source lucene search index analyze solr hibernate
Ibidem.


nb open source google map reduce mongodb hadoop cloud distribute merge data schedule failover function program amazon
Ibidem.


nb open source apache mahout data mine machine learn recommend customer hadoop
Ibidem.


nb open source web user interface dojo backbone javascript model view controller jquery
Ibidem.


nb memetics information theory quote jgleick
Gleick, J. 201105.  What defines a meme?  Smithsonian magazine:
Arts & Culture.
http://www.smithsonianmag.com/arts-culture/What-Defines-a-Meme.html

Our world is a place where information can behave like human genes and
ideas can replicate, mutate and evolve.  With the rise of information theory,
ideas were seen as behaving like organisms, replicating by leaping
from brain to brain, interacting to form new ideas and evolving in
what the scientist Roger Sperry called "a burstwise advance".

“What lies at the heart of every living thing is not a fire, not warm
breath, not a ‘spark of life.’ It is information, words, instructions. …
All life evolves by the differential survival of replicating entities. …
Memes propagate themselves in the meme pool by leaping from brain to
brain via a process which, in the broad sense, can be called imitation. …
I believe that, given the right conditions, replicators automatically
band together to create systems, or machines, that carry them around
and work to favor their continued replication.”
―Richard Dawkins.
	They compete with one another for limited resources:
brain time or bandwidth.  They compete most of all for attention.

“It was obviously predictable that manufactured electronic computers, too,
would eventually play host to self-replicating patterns of information.…
when their owners pass floppy discs around.  … Many of them are
literally wired up together in electronic mail exchange.  …
It is a perfect milieu for self-replicating programs to flourish.”
―Richard Dawkins.

“Ideas have retained some of the properties of organisms.  Like them,
they tend to perpetuate their structure and to breed; they too can fuse,
recombine, segregate their content; indeed they too can evolve, and in
this evolution selection must surely play an important role.  … [they have]
spreading power, infectivity, as it were.”
―Jacques Monod

“Ideas cause ideas and help evolve new ideas.  They interact with each
other and with other mental forces in the same brain, in neighboring brains,
and thanks to global communication, in far distant, foreign brains.
And they also interact with the external surroundings to produce in toto
a burstwise advance in evolution that is far beyond anything to hit
the evolutionary scene yet.”
―Roger Sperry

“A wagon with spoked wheels carries not only grain or freight from
place to place; it carries the brilliant idea of a wagon with spoked
wheels from mind to mind.  … I don’t know about you, but I am not
initially attracted by the idea of my brain as a sort of dung heap in
which the larvae of other people’s ideas renew themselves,
before sending out copies of themselves in an informational diaspora. …
Who’s in charge, according to this vision—we or our memes?”
―Daniel Dennett

/Tinker, tailor, soldier, sailor./  … Rhyme and rhythm help people
remember bits of text.  Or: rhyme and rhythm help bits of text get
remembered.  Rhyme and rhythm are qualities that aid a meme’s
survival, just as strength and speed aid an animal’s.  Patterned
language has an evolutionary advantage.  Rhyme, rhythm and reason—
for reason, too, is a form of pattern.  /I was promised on a time to
have reason for my rhyme; from that time unto this season, I received
nor rhyme nor reason./

As they broadcast their influence on the world, memes thus influence
the conditions affecting their own chances of survival.  … In a way,
these are the most interesting—the memes that thrive to their hosts’
detriment,¹ such as the idea that suicide bombers will find their
reward in heaven.
 ¹ But not to the detriment of the hosts’ society, like altruism.

Researchers studying the Internet itself as a medium—crowdsourcing,
collective attention, social networking and resource allocation—
employ not only the language but also the mathematical principles of
epidemiology.

“Well, now, Walton’s own viral text, as you can see here before your eyes,
has managed to commandeer the facilities of a very powerful host—
an entire magazine and printing press and distribution service.
It has leapt aboard and is now—even as you read this viral sentence—
propagating itself madly throughout the ideosphere!”
—Douglas Hofstadter

“In the night when I cannot sleep, thoughts crowd into my mind. …
Whence and how do they come?  I do not know and I have nothing to do
with it.”
―repeated by Mozart

The term “meme” could be applied to a suspicious cornucopia
of entities, from small to large.  For Dennett, the first four notes of
Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony (quoted above) were “clearly” a meme,
along with Homer’s Odyssey (or at least the idea of the Odyssey),
the wheel, anti-Semitism and writing.  “Memes have not yet found their
Watson and Crick,” said Dawkins; “they even lack their Mendel.”

A well-developed marketplace of ideas, to repeat a meme quoted by
Thomas Jefferson.

“The human world is made of stories, not people, The people the
stories use to tell themselves are not to be blamed.”
―David Mitchell

“As with all knowledge, once you knew it, you couldn’t imagine how it
was that you hadn’t known it before.  Like stage magic, knowledge
before you knew it took place before your very eyes, but you were
looking elsewhere.”
―Margaret Atwood

“A life poured into words—apparent waste intended to preserve the
thing consumed.”
―John Updike

“In the beginning there was information.  The word came later.  …
The transition was achieved by the development of organisms with the
capacity for selectively exploiting this information in order to
survive and perpetuate their kind.”
―Fred Dretske
	Now we might add, thanks to Dawkins, that the transition was
achieved by the information [society] itself, surviving and
perpetuating its kind and selectively exploiting organisms.


nb chain letter history vary example threat forward promise
Ibidem.

The very purpose of a chain letter is replication; whatever else a
chain letter may say, it embodies one message: Copy me.  One student
of chain-letter evolution, Daniel W. VanArsdale, listed many variants,
in chain letters and even earlier texts: “Make seven copies of it
exactly as it is written” (1902); “Copy this in full and send to nine
friends” (1923); “And if any man shall take away from the words of the
book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life”
(Revelation 22:19).  Chain letters flourished with the help of a new
19th-century technology: “carbonic paper,” sandwiched between sheets
of writing paper in stacks.  Then carbon paper made a symbiotic
partnership with another technology, the typewriter.  Viral outbreaks
of chain letters occurred all through the early 20th century.
Two subsequent technologies, when their use became widespread,
provided orders-of-magnitude boosts in chain-letter fecundity:
photocopying (c. 1950) and e-mail (c. 1995).

Analysis of a set of chain letters collected during the photocopier era.
They had 33, all variants of a single letter, with mutations in the
form of misspellings, omissions and transposed words and phrases.
“These letters have passed from host to host, mutating and evolving,”
they reported in 2003.  Like a gene, their average length is about
2,000 characters.  Like a potent virus, the letter threatens to kill
you and induces you to pass it on to your “friends and associates”—
some variation of this letter has probably reached millions of people.
Like an inheritable trait, it promises benefits for you and the people
you pass it on to.  Like genomes, chain letters undergo natural
selection and sometimes parts even get transferred between coexisting
“species.”

Reaching beyond these appealing metaphors, the three researchers set
out to use the letters as a “test bed” for algorithms used in
evolutionary biology.  The algorithms were designed to take the
genomes of various modern creatures and work backward, by inference
and deduction, to reconstruct their phylogeny—their evolutionary trees.
If these mathematical methods worked with genes, the scientists
suggested, they should work with chain letters, too.  In both cases
the researchers were able to verify mutation rates and relatedness
measures.


nb bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Music_of_Battlestar_Galactica_(reimagining)


nb fate theme bsg soundtrack bmccreary music 
Ibidem.

The Shape of Things to Come theme.  This theme, also referred to as the
"Passacaglia", "Allegro", or "Opera House theme", is one of the few
recurring motifs in Battlestar Galactica—along with "Worthy of Survival"—
not associated with a particular character or group of characters.
Appearing in the first season soundtrack as "Passacaglia" after the Spanish
and Italian musical form that it follows, the theme was first introduced
over the opening montage of episode "Kobol's Last Gleaming, Part 1".
In "Kobol's Last Gleaming, Part 2", it plays as Baltar has a vision amid
the ruins of the Opera House on Kobol of that structure as it was during
Kobol's glory days.  He is informed by his internal Number Six that the
mysterious infant he sees within—apparently Hera Agathon—is "the first
of a new generation of God's children" and "the face of the shape of things
to come." The theme also accompanies Number Three's visions of the Final
Five set in the Opera House in "Hero", but its usage is not limited to the
Opera House setting: in "Home, Part 2", "Pegasus", and "Unfinished
Business" it accompanies emotionally resonant scenes that concern the fate
of characters or their relationships.  In the third season soundtrack,
it features in the track "Violence and Variations", where it is interwoven
with Lee and Kara's love theme, and "Under the Wing." The final version
serves as the outro to "An Easterly View", which plays as Admiral Adama
sits next to Laura Roslin's grave in the series finale.  Each major
variation of this theme is in a different meter: "Passacaglia" is in 3/4,
"The Shape of Things to Come" is in 6/8 and "Allegro" is in 4/4.
Appearances: "Kobol's Last Gleaming, Parts 1 and 2", "Scattered", "Home,
Part 2", "Hero", "Unfinished Business", "Crossroads, Part 2," "Daybreak,
Part 2."


nb worthy survival theme bsg soundtrack bmccreary music 
Ibidem.

Worthy of Survival.  The "Worthy of Survival" theme was developed as a
melancholy variation of the "Prelude to War" cue used to score the combat
scenes in "Pegasus" and "Resurrection Ship, Parts 1 and 2".  "While the
accompanimental [sic] figures come from Prelude, the melody is wholly
original to this theme.  First stated on a lonely duduk, and then in
octaves by the violins and violas, it is a melancholy and contemplative
tune."—Bear McCreary.  Taking its title from a line of dialogue in
"Resurrection Ship, Part 2", the theme was intended to play as Starbuck
prepares to assassinate Admiral Helena Cain, but only a small fragment was
used in the final cut of the episode.  McCreary re-worked the theme for the
second season finale, "Lay Down Your Burdens, Part 2", and a bolder
statement of the theme played over the Cylons' occupation of New Caprica.
"Worthy of Survival" returned in its most tragic and melancholy statement
as the cue playing over Saul Tigh's uxoricide of Ellen Tigh.
Appearances: "Resurrection Ship, Part 2", "Lay Down Your Burdens, Part 2",
"Exodus, Part 2", "Daybreak, Part 2".


nb watchtower theme bsg soundtrack bmccreary music bdylan
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Music_of_Battlestar_Galactica_(reimagining)#The_Shape_of_Things_to_Come_theme

All Along the Watchtower.  A somewhat exotic-themed version of the 1967
Bob Dylan song "All Along the Watchtower" features prominently in the third
season track "A Distant Sadness", and specially the season finale episodes
"Crossroads, Parts 1 and 2", in the tracks "Heeding the Call", and the
penultimate "All Along the Watchtower".  McCreary's arrangement utilizes
the electric sitar, harmonium, duduk, fretless bass, yayli tanbur, electric
violin and zurna, and features McCreary's brother Brendan "Bt4" McCreary
and former Oingo Boingo guitarist Steve Bartek.  The song haunts the
characters Saul Tigh, Galen Tyrol, Samuel Anders, and Tory Foster
throughout the two parts of "Crossroads" and plays over the final scenes of
"Crossroads, Part 2": like "Metamorphosis One", it is one of the few pieces
of music in the reimagined Battlestar Galactica that is both diegetic and
non-diegetic.  Variations of the theme can also be heard by Saul Tigh in
"He That Believeth In Me", the four of the final cylons revealed thus far
in "Revelations", and Samuel Anders (who remembers playing the song on
guitar) in "Sometimes A Great Notion" . A piano version of the tune
entitled "Kara Remembers" can also be heard in the episode "Someone to
Watch Over Me".  The most famous version of the song, recorded by Jimi
Hendrix, plays at the very end of "Daybreak, Part 2", making it the last
song played in the series.


nb supernova string quartet melody bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  A promise to return.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.


nb vocal sitar bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  The cylon prisoner.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.
McCreary, B.  Gina escapes.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.


nb boomer hagathon bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  Boomer takes Hera.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.


nb battle bsg soundtrack bmccreary music 
McCreary, B.  Prelude to war.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.


nb lroslin wadama apollo bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  Roslin and Adama.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.
McCreary, B.  Laura runs.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.
McCreary, B.  Goodbye Apollo.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 4.
McCreary, B.  Roslin and Adama reunited.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 4.
McCreary, B.  The heart of the sun.  Battlestar Galactica: Daybreak.


nb colony anthem bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  Colonial anthem.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.


nb battlestar galactica bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  Grand old lady.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 4.


nb battlestar pegasus adama bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  Pegasus.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 4.


nb watchtower kthrace bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  Kara remembers.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 4.
http://bsgorchestra.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=14
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kara_Thrace#The_song

McCreary, B.  Kara’s coordinates.  Battlestar Galactica: Daybreak.


nb allegro sanders bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  Allegro.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.
McCreary, B.  Goodbye Sam.  Battlestar Galactica: Daybreak.
McCreary, B.  An easterly view.  Battlestar Galactica: Daybreak.


nb taiko drum bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  Main title.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.


nb stigh bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  Martial law.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.


nb gbaltar bsg soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  Baltar's dream.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 2.


nb soundtrack bmccreary music
McCreary, B.  Among the ruins.  Battlestar Galactica: Season 4.


nb doc
