nb meredith eberhart nimblewill nomad hike ultra light long distance backpack

Moor, R.  20170703.  The man who went on a hike–and never
stopped walking.  The Guardian: Travel.
web https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/jul/03/hiking-walking-nimblewill-nomad-mj-eberhart

He carried a blue backpack no larger than a preschooler’s knapsack.
A single plastic water bottle was tied to his belt with a piece of
frayed blue string.  His trekking poles were folded in the crook of
his arm.  In his hand, he carried a chipped styrofoam coffee cup [of ice].

Sunglasses.  Ball cap.

At one point on our final day together, Eberhart paused at the
intersection of a gravel road to show me the contents of his pack.
He spread out his things in the dust.  There was a tarp tent,
a sleeping bag, a sleeping pad, the small bag of electronics, a hint
of a medical kit, a plastic poncho, his maps, a pair of ultralight
wind pants, and the pile of metal junk.  All of the fabrics had the
wispiness of gossamer; a strong wind could had taken most of his
earthly possessions away.

Besides his truck and a few mementos he kept at his sister’s house,
he didn’t own much more than this.

“I tell my friends: every year I’ve got less and less, and every year
I’m a happier man.  I just wonder what it’s going to be like when I
don’t have anything.  That’s the way we come, and that’s the way
we go.  I’m just preparing for that a little in advance, I guess.”

Instead of a toothbrush, he carried a wooden toothpick.  He did not
carry a stove.  He did not carry a spare change of socks, a spare set
of shoes, nor any other spare clothes.  He did not carry reading
material, nor even a notebook.  He did not carry toilet paper.
His med-kit contained little more than a few bandaids, a pile of aspirin,
and a sliver of a surgical blade.

Shaving down one’s pack weight, he said, was a process of sloughing
off one’s fears.

Each object a person carries represents a particular fear: of injury,
of discomfort, of boredom, of attack.  The “last vestige” of fear that
even the most minimalist hikers have trouble shedding, he said, was
starvation.  As a result, most people ended up carrying “way the hell
too much food”.  He did not even carry so much as an emergency
candy bar.

Earlier, I had asked him if he was afraid to die.  He shook his head.
“Nah, I don’t think so,” he said.  He told me his grandfather had died
in the woods (of a heart attack while hunting), his father had died in
the woods (of a chainsaw accident while gathering firewood), and he
was “working on it”.
