nb daily stoic vfrankl wabi sabi failure imperfect suffer struggle incomplete die death impermanent

Daily Stoic: Viktor Frankl, the Holocaust survivor, observed three
universal facts about human existence.  They are not immediately
uplifting, so please close this post if you were expecting light and
fluffy inspiration.
	He said, “There is no human being who may say that he has
not failed, that he does not suffer, and that he will not die.”
	It is this “Tragic Triad” that defines every one of our lives,
does it not?  That might seem like reason for despair.  Suffering,
failure and death.
	The Stoics say that it is not.  These are simply objective truths—
it’s our perceptions that look at them and say: “It’s unfair.”
“It’s sad.” “I must try to escape it.”
	Instead of judging this reality, we should say instead,
“Ok, if that’s how it is, I will try to make the most of my lot.”
If we do this, we will find—though certainly not easily—that it is
from failure, struggle and death that meaning is produced.
	It’s death that gives life urgency.  It’s failure that teaches
us lessons.  It’s suffering that shows us who we are.
	Don’t run from these three facts.  Don’t label them tragic.
Face them.

Jason Catena: "imperfect, impermanent, and incomplete"
web https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wabi-sabi

Wikipedia: In traditional Japanese aesthetics, Wabi-sabi (侘寂) is a
world view centered on the acceptance of transience and imperfection.
The aesthetic is sometimes described as one of beauty that is
"imperfect, impermanent, and incomplete".  It is a concept derived
from the Buddhist teaching of the three marks of existence (三法印
sanbōin), specifically impermanence (無常 mujō), suffering (苦 ku) and
emptiness or absence of self-nature (空 kū).
	Characteristics of the wabi-sabi aesthetic include asymmetry,
roughness, simplicity, economy, austerity, modesty, intimacy, and
appreciation of the ingenuous integrity of natural objects and
processes.

Richard Powell: [W]abi-sabi nurtures all that is authentic by
acknowledging three simple realities: nothing lasts, nothing is
finished, and nothing is perfect.
