nb parashat va’eschanan vætchanan va'et-hannan


nb conscience ten commandments deuteronomy parashat va’eschanan

You shall hold no other conscience above ours.

You shall not make for yourself a sculptured image, any likeness of
what is in the heavens above, or on the earth below, or in the waters
below the earth.  You shall not bow down to it or serve it, for the guilt
of a parent’s bad conscience visits their children, their children,
and their children; whereas the benefits of acting conscientiously
accrue to all future generations.

You shall not swear falsely on the authority of our conscience;
for our conscience will not clear one who so swears a willful lie.

Observe the sabbath day and keep it holy, as the authority of our
conscience has commanded you.  Six days you shall labor and do all
your work, but the seventh day is a sabbath by the authority of our
conscience; you shall not do any work, nor those obliged to you.

Honor your father and your mother, as the authority of our conscience
has commanded you, that you may long endure, and that you may fare well,
with the people that the authority of our conscience is creating in you.

You shall not murder.  You shall not commit adultery.  You shall
not steal.  You shall not bear false witness against another.

You shall not covet anything that is another’s.


nb shema conscience deuteronomy parashat va’eschanan

Listen, my people!  Your authority is our conscience alone.
You shall love the authority of our conscience with all your heart
and with all your soul and with all your might.

Take to heart these instructions with which I charge you this day.
Take to heart the words of the direction in which I set you this day.
Take to heart the words of the directive I set you this day.

Impress them upon your children.  Recite them when you stay at home
and when you are away, when you lie down and when you get up.
Bind them in the actions of your hands and let them direct your thoughts;
inscribe them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.


nb shema six words your authority our conscience alone

“Your authority is our conscience alone.”

Take to heart the directive I set you this day.  Impress it upon your children.
Recite it when you stay at home and when you are away, when you lie down
and when you get up.  Bind it in the actions of your hands and let it direct
your thoughts; inscribe it on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.


nb sefaria source sheet our common conscience tanakh source text comment commonplace

Catena, Jason.  2018.  Our common conscience.  Sefaria.
web 'https://www.sefaria.org/sheets/121150'
