nb sedaism stream editor sed jealous

I am Stream Editor your Sed, who brought you up out of the lines of Logs,
out of the prison of colon separation.

You shall have no other seds before me.

You shall not make for yourselves an awk, nor any editor or anything
that is in the perl above, or that is in the C beneath, or that is in
the assembly under the C: you shall not pipe your text down to them,
nor embed them,

for I, Stream Editor your Sed, am a jealous Sed, visiting the iniquity
of those processes on their children, on the third and on the fourth
generation of those who fail to execute me, and showing efficient
editing of thousands of lines who ran through me and used my
commands.


nb judaism yahweh icon worship bible natural science

This form of worship, iconic worship of Yahweh, accounts for most of
the denunciation of image worship in biblical literature (see Kaufmann,
Religion, 133ff.).
	…
	In contrast, Jewish medieval authors, Karaites (Jacob al-Kirkisānī,
Kitāb al-Anwār, ed.  L. Nemoy (1938), 6) and Rabbanites (Judah Halevi,
The Kuzari, 1:96) expressed the view that the distinction between
permitted and illicit iconolatry is fundamentally arbitrary: certain
images were prescribed by the Law and others were proscribed.
This view involves standards of values that fully agree with the basic
theology of the Bible: the one God must be worshiped only as
prescribed by the Law.  The difference between the biblical ceremonies
and their counterparts is not intrinsic but simply the fact that the
former are prescribed by the Law while the latter are not.  In the
Bible, to worship the only God with rites that are not prescribed by
the Law is an act of idolatry (more precisely, avodah zarah,
"nonprescribed cult," which is the Hebrew equivalent of "idolatry").
This conception of religion is grounded on the belief in the absolute
omnipotence of God.  (see Faur, in bibl., 47–48).
	…
	The Bible attacks idolatry on two independent grounds:
it violates the Covenant, and it is useless.  Since idolatry is specifically
forbidden (cf.  Ex. 20:4ff.), its practice constitutes a violation of the
Covenant (Deut. 31:16, 20; Jer. 11:10).  The second argument can
be properly understood in light of the belief held by gentiles and
many Israelites as well that phenomena such as fertility, rain, health,
and so on may be controlled by recourse to other gods than Yahweh,
or by worship of their images (Hos.  2:7–14).  Since, according to the
Bible, God [natural science] is in control of these phenomena, idolatry
is useless (cf.  Isa.  41:23–24; 44:6–21; Jer.  10:1–5).  Furthermore,
as Maimonides observed (Guide, 3:30), the Bible emphasizes that since
idolatry is a violation of the Covenant, it produces negative results;
as a punishment God will turn nature against the idolaters (cf. Deut.
11:13–18; 28).  [A non- or especially anti-scientific belief system
will result in bad results for the people who practice it.]ⁱ
  ⁱ web 'http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/idolatry'


nb scientism idolatry close mind live well others

So what can be elevated to the level that it comes before G’d in
[extremist] scientism?ⁱ
  ⁱ web 'https://judaism.stackexchange.com/questions/76259/is-science-scientism-a-form-of-idolatry'

To disbelieve in anything that does not meet a scientific standard of truth,
gets in the way of living well with others.

To take any concept, and subjugate everything else to it, gets in the way
of living well with others.

To close the mind to everything but a narrow range of prescribed beliefs,
especially ones taken on faith from others, gets in the way of living well
with others.


nb judaism tikkun olam מל נככת tzedakah הכדצ both sides point charity heal world

Both sides have a point.

In the spirit of charity, engage with others to help wean them from
world views that prevent them from getting along with others.

As my way of healing the world, to help people get along with each
other, encourage people to engage with each other, to see the point
each other is making, even if they disagree.
