nb conscience second vatican council

“Deep within his conscience man discovers a law which he has not laid
upon himself but which he must obey.  Its voice, ever calling him to
love and to do what is good and to avoid evil, tells him inwardly at
the right movement: do this, shun that.  For man has in his heart a
law inscribed by […].  His dignity lies in observing this law, and by
it he will be judged.  His conscience is man’s most secret core, and
his sanctuary.  There he is alone with […; a version/vision of himself]
whose voice echoes in his depths.” Thus, conscience is not like the
will, nor a habit like prudence, but "the interior space in which we
can listen to and hear the truth, the good, the voice of [… (our best
selves)].  It is the inner place of our relationship with [… (our best self)],
who speaks to our heart and helps us to discern, to understand the
path we ought to take, and once the decision is made, to move forward,
to remain faithful [to our best selves].”ⁱ
  ⁱ web 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conscience'


nb logic syllogism conscience objective norm practical conclusion particular case situation

In terms of logic, conscience can be viewed as the practical conclusion
of a moral syllogism whose major premise is an objective norm and
whose minor premise is a particular case or situation to which the
norm is applied.  Thus, […; they] are taught to carefully educate them-
selves as to revealed norms and norms derived therefrom, so as to form
a correct conscience.ⁱ
  ⁱ web 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conscience'


nb conscience right act freedom

“Man has the right to act according to his conscience and in freedom
so as personally to make moral decisions.  He must not be forced to
act contrary to his conscience.  Nor must he be prevented from acting
according to his conscience.”ⁱ
  ⁱ web 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conscience'


nb judaism conscience

web 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conscience'

Judaism arguably does not require uncompromising obedience to
religious authority; the case has been made that throughout Jewish
history rabbis have circumvented laws they found unconscionable,
such as capital punishment.ⁱ  Similarly, although an occupation with
national destiny has been central to the Jewish faith (see Zionism)
many scholars (including Moses Mendelssohn) stated that conscience
as a personal revelation of scriptural truth was an important adjunct
to the Talmudic tradition.
  ⁱ Harold H Schulweis.  Conscience: The Duty to Obey and the Duty to
Disobey.  Jewish Lights Publishing.  2008.
  ⁲ Ninian Smart.  The Religious Experience of Mankind.  Collins.  NY.
1969.  pp. 395–400.
  ⁳ Levi Meier (Ed.) Conscience and Autonomy within Judaism: A Special
Issue of the Journal of Psychology and Judaism.  Springer-Verlag.
New York.  ISBN 978-0-89885-364-3.


nb jordan peterson influences liberal christlike moral responsible jung religion taoism

Politically, Peterson has described himself as a classic British liberal.
He is a philosophical pragmatist.  In a 2017 interview, Peterson
identified as a Christian, but in 2018 he did not.  He emphasized his
conceptualization of Christianity is probably not what it is generally
understood, stating that the ethical responsibility of a Christian is
to imitate Christ, for him meaning “something like you need to take
responsibility for the evil in the world as if you were responsible
for it [...] to understand that you determine the direction of the world,
whether it’s toward heaven or hell”.  When asked if he believes in God,
Peterson responded: “I think the proper response to that is No, but
I’m afraid He might exist”.  Writing for The Spectator, Tim Lott said
Peterson draws inspiration from Jung’s philosophy of religion, and
holds views similar to the Christian existentialism of Søren Kierkegaard
and Paul Tillich.  Lott also said Peterson has respect for Taoism,
as it views nature as a struggle between order and chaos, and posits
that life would be meaningless without this duality.
  ⁱ web 'https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jordan_Peterson'
