nb 12 tribes israel reuben simeon judah issachar zebulun joseph ephriam manasseh benjamin dan asher gad napthali camp division numbers 1–2

web 'https://www.sefaria.org/Numbers.1?lang=bi&aliyot=0'

Front, east, march first: division of Judah (3); Issachar (4); Zebulun (5).
East of Tabernacle: Moses and Aaron and sons.

South: division of Reuben (1); Simeon (2); Gad (11).
South of Tabernacle: Levite clan of Kohath.

Central, at Tabernacle (Tent of Meeting): division of Levites (0).

West: division of Ephriam (6), son of Joseph; Manasseh (7), son of Joseph; Benjamin (8).
West of Tabernacle: Levite clan of Gershon.

North: division of Dan (9); Asher (10); Naphtali (12).
North of Tabernacle: Levite clan of Merari.


nb authority respect honor kill

You do need some kind of higher authority that will enforce a minimal
respect for human rights in a way that would rule out honor killings.ⁱ
  ⁱ Harris, Sam. #126—In defense of honor.  Waking up podcast.


nb ruth 1:16–17 devotion conversion conversation

Sefaria: But Ruth replied, “Do not urge me to leave you, to turn back
and not follow you.  For wherever you go, I will go; wherever you lodge,
I will lodge; your people shall be my people, and your God my God.
	Where you die, I will die, and there I will be buried.  Thus and more
may the LORD do to me if anything but death parts me from you.”

Rashi: Do not press me.

Rashi: For wherever you go, I shall go.  From here our Rabbis of blessed
memory⁲⁴ derived that if a [prospective] proselyte comes to convert,
we inform him of some of the punishments [for violating the commandments]
so that is he decides to renege [from his intention to convert], he can renege;
for out of the words of Rus, you can learn what Naomi said to her.
[Naomi said.] “We may not venture outside the boundary [of 2000 cubits
beyond city limits] on Shabbos.” She [Rus] replied to her, “For wherever
you go I shall go.”⁲⁵ [Naomi then said,] “We are prohibited to allow a
woman to be secluded with a man who is not her husband.” She [Rus]
replied, “Where you lodge, I will lodge.” [Naomi said,] “Our nation is
separated from other nations by 613 commandments,” [and Rus replied,]
“Your people are my people.” [Naomi said,] “Idolatry is forbidden to us,”⁲⁶
[to which Rus replied,] “Your God is my God.” [Naomi then said,]
“Four [types of] death penalties were delegated to Beis Din [to punish
transgressors],” [and Rus replied,] “Where you die, I will die.”
[Naomi continued,] “Two burial plots were delegated to Beis Din
[to bury those executed], one for those stoned and those burned, and
one for those decapitated and those strangled.” She [Rus] replied,
“And there I shall be buried.”
	⁲⁴ In Maseches Yevamos 47b.
	⁲⁵ Malbim: Alternatively, just as you are going to Eretz Yisroel
for the sake of your religion, so it is my purpose to go there in order to
be able to keep the Torah’s commandments.
	⁲⁶ Torah Temimah: Although idolatry is forbidden to Noahites,
they are forbidden to worship idols only if they do so exclusively,
but not if they worship God in conjunction with their idolatry.

Ibn Ezra: יב יעגפת לא entreat me not (Ruth 1:16); when עגפ is
constructed with the preposition ב, then the noun, to which the ב is
prefixed, is the object to the verb.ⁱ
  ⁱ I. E. thus distinguishes between עגפ governing the accusative,
and עגפ being followed by the preposition ב; the former has the
meaning to accept the prayer of or to be entreated by, the latter:
to entreat.  In the former case the noun governed by the verb עגפ
is in reality לעופה, the one that acts (that entreats), in the other
case לועפה the object.

Rashi on Genesis 23:8:2: יל ועגפו — This phrase signifies entreaty,
as (Ruth 1:16) “Do not entreat (יעגפת) me”.

Rashi: So may Adonoy do to me.  As He has begun to afflict [me],
for His hand has gone forth against me to kill my husband and to cause
me to lose my possessions.

Rashi: And even more.  If anything but death separates me from you.

JPS: A formula of imprecation.


ruth 2:11–12 accept convert

Sefaria: Boaz said in reply, “I have been told of all that you did for
your mother-in-law after the death of your husband, how you left your
father and mother and the land of your birth and came to a people you
had not known before.
	May the LORD reward your deeds. May you have a full recompense from
the LORD, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have sought refuge!”


nb ruth 4:10–13 marriage to convert

Sefaria: I am also acquiring Ruth the Moabite, the wife of Mahlon, as my wife,
so as to perpetuate the name of the deceased upon his estate, that the name
of the deceased may not disappear from among his kinsmen and from the
gate of his home town.  You are witnesses today.”
	All the people at the gate and the elders answered, “We are.
May the LORD make the woman who is coming into your house like
Rachel and Leah, both of whom built up the House of Israel!
Prosper in Ephrathah and perpetuate your name in Bethlehem!
	And may your house be like the house of Perez whom Tamar bore
to Judah—through the offspring which the LORD will give you by this
young woman.”
	So Boaz married Ruth; she became his wife, and he cohabited
with her.  The LORD let her conceive, and she bore a son.
