nb judaism idol terapim םיפרת elil emim gillulim mipletset tsb wevine

Vine, W.E; ed. Unger & White, Jr.  1940.  Complete Expository Dictionary
of Old & New Testament Words.  Published without copyright.

IDOL.
	terapim (םיפרת, 8655), “idol; household idol; cultic mask;
divine symbol.” This word is a loanword from Hittite-Hurrian (tarpish)
which in West Semitic assumes the basic form tarpi.  Its basic meaning
is “spirit” or “demon”.  Biblical Hebrew attests this word 15 times.
	Terapim first appears in Gen. 31:19: “And Laban went to shear
his sheep: and Rachel had stolen the [household gods] that were her
father’s.” Hurrian law of this period recognized “household idols” as
deeds to the family’s succession and goods.  This makes these terapim
(possibly a plural of majesty as is elohim when used of false gods;
cf. 1 Kings 11:5, 33) extremely important to Laban in every way.
	In 1 Sam. 19:13 we read that “Michal took the terapim [here a
plural of “majesty”] and laid it on the bed, and put a quilt of goat’s
hair at its head, and covered it with blankets” (author’s translation).
In view of 1 Sam. 19:11, where it is said that they were in David’s
private quarters, supposing that this terapim was a “household idol”
is difficult, although not impossible.  Some scholars suggest that
this was a “cultic” mask used in worshiping God.
	Either of the former suggestions is the possible meaning of
the word in the Micah incident recorded in Judg. 17-18.  Notice in
Judg. 17:5: “…  Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod, and
terapim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.”
In Judg. 18:14 terapim appears to be distinguished from idols:
“… there is in these houses an ephod, and terapim, and a graven image,
and a molten image”?  The verses that follow suggest that the graven
image and the molten image may have been the same thing: Judg. 18:17
uses all four words in describing what the Danites stole; Judg. 18:20
omits “molten image” from the list; and Judg. 18:31 reports that only
the graven image was set up for worship.  We know that the ephod was a
special priestly garment.  Could it be that terapim was a “cultic mask”
or some other symbol of the divine presence?
	Thus terapim may signify an “idol,” a “cultic mask,” or perhaps
a “symbol of the divine presence.” In any case the item is associated
with pagan worship and perhaps with worship of God.
	elil (457), “idol; gods; nought; vain.” The 20 occurrences of
this noun are primarily in Israel’s legal code and the prophetic
writings (especially Isaiah).  Cognates of this word appear in
Akkadian, Syriac, and Arabic.
	This disdainful word signifies an “idol” or “false god.”
Elil first appears in Lev. 19:4: “Turn ye not unto idols, nor make to
yourselves molten gods….” In Lev. 26:1 the elilim are what Israel
is forbidden to make: “Ye shall make you no idols….” The irony of
this is biting not only with respect to the usual meaning of this word
but also in view of its similarity to the usual word for God (elohim;
cf. Ps. 96:5): “For all the gods [elohim] of the people are idols [elohim]…”
(1 Chron. 16:26).  Second, this word can mean “nought” or “vain.”
1 Chron. 16:26 might well be rendered: “For all the gods of the
people are nought.” This nuance appears clearly in Job 13:4:
“But ye are forgers of lies; ye are all physicians of no value
[physicians of vanity].” Jeremiah told Israel that their prophets were
“prophesy [ing] unto you a false vision and divination, and a thing of
nought…”.
	gillulim ([ם]ל[…]לג, 1544), “idols.” Of the 48 occurrences of this
word, all but 9 appear in Ezekiel.  This word for “idols” is a disdainful
word and may originally have meant “dung pellets”: “And I will destroy
your high places, and cut down your images, and cast your carcases
upon the carcases of your idols, and my soul shall abhor you”
(Lev. 26:30).
	This word and others for “idol” exhibit the horror and scorn that
biblical writers felt toward them.  In passages such as Isa. 66:3 the
word for “idol,” awen, means “uncanny or wickedness.”  Jer. 50:38
evidences the word emim, which means “fright or horror.”  The word
elil appears for “idol” in Lev. 19:4; it means “nothingness or feeble.”
1 Kings 15:13 uses the Hebrew word mipletset, meaning a “horrible
thing, a cause of trembling.” A root signifying to make an image or to
shape something, tsb (a homonym of the root meaning “sorrow and
grief”) is used in several passages (cf. 1 Sam. 31:9).


nb terapim station grateful dead idolatry

Inspiration, move me brightly
light the song with sense and color,
hold away despair
More than this I will not ask
faced with mysteries dark and vast
statements just seem vain at last
some rise, some fall, some climb
to get to terapim
Counting stars by candlelight
all are dim but one is bright:
the spiral light of Venus
rising first and shining best,
From the northwest corner
of a brand-new crescent moon 
crickets and cicadas sing
a rare and different tune
terapim station


nb hated speech free social justice classic liberal science define terms attitude problem

“Hated speech” is sometimes code for “hated speech”, as in “I hate the
exercise of, and the result of, (your) free speech, because it does not
necessarily advance social justice (as I see it)”.  This is true, because
sometimes it is in service of classical liberalism, or science.  Don’t let
the haters dominate the terms of the debate: they are the ones with
the attitude problem.


nb idolatry

Jacobs, L.  Idolatry: The ultimate betrayal of God.  My Jewish learning.
web 'https://www.myjewishlearning.com/article/idolatry-the-ultimate-betrayal-of-god/'
