nb online parsha dena weiss hadar elliott cosgrove

Dena: Good on-line parsha resources: there are two schools of thought:
the straight-up read the parsha (or a summary; you might enjoy the
godcasts), or read various people's sermons which tend to have a much
narrower focus parsha-wise, but broader focus more generally.
I really like Dena Weiss at Hadar's weekly drash (and not just because
she spells her name right); I find Elliott Cosgrove's workⁱ interesting;
most Jewish denominations have a weekly email you can receive.
I really appreciate the crapshoot aspect of reading different sermons,
but I can see real value (esp for a newcomer) to just get a straight-up
digest of the parsha.  My Jewish Learning has a pretty good one.⁲
  ⁱ web 'https://pasyn.org/resources/sermons'
  ⁲ web 'https://www.myjewishlearning.com/torah-portions/'


nb leviticus 16 shrine blood sacrifice atonement


nb leviticus 17 forbid eat animal blood


nb leviticus 18 forbid incest homosexual host country custom


nb leviticus 19 honor father mother idolatry sacrifice spoil sustain fruit field forbid steal fraud cruel blind deaf justice judge unfairly grudge mix material slave affair divination soothsaying cut hair self mutilate flesh mark tattoo sabbath respect aged hospitality stranger honest trade ghost familiar spirit


nb leviticus 19:15 unfairly decision favor poor defer rich judge kin rashi ibn ezra

Michæl Skobac: “… with righteousness you shall judge your fellow.”

Sefaria: You shall not render an unfair decision: do not favor the
poor or show deference to the rich; judge your kinsman fairly.ⁱ
  ⁱ web 'https://www.sefaria.org/Leviticus.19.15?lang=bi&aliyot=0'

Rashi: Ye shall not do injustice in judgement.

Ibn Ezra: Do not pervert justice.

The judge is entrusted with fair consideration of cases, and fair
dispensation of the penalties of the law.  The witness is entrusted to
be telling the truth.

Rashi: Thou shalt not respect the person of the indigent, nor honor
the person of the mighty.⁲
  ⁲ Sifra, Kedoshim, Chapter 4 3

Ibn Ezra: a great man here denotes a wealthy man.⁵
  ⁵ cf the description of Barzillai
nb ii samuel 19:33

The judge, as well as the law, is no respecter of persons, rich or
poor, low or mighty/noble.

Rashi: In righteousness [strict right] shalt thou judge thy companion.
Another explanation is: Judge thy fellow man with an inclination in
his favour.⁳ ⁴
  ⁳ Sifra, Kedoshim, Chapter 4 4
  ⁴ Shevuot 30a

Sforno: לא תעשו עול במשפט:, a warning not to relate sternly to one
litigant while being lenient towards his opponent.  … [W]arn against bad-
mouthing people generally, especially when it even involves slander.

Rabbeinu Bahya: It is said of G’d’s throne⁶ that “righteousness and
justice are the foundation of Your throne,”;⁵ if someone perverts the
judicial system he thereby undermines G’d’s throne.  This is a
demeaning of G’d’s glory.⁷
  ⁵ nb psalms 89:16
  ⁶ rule by the Jewish community
  ⁷ honor of the Jewish community

Siftei Chakhamim: Another interpretation: Judge your fellow [favorably].
[You need the second interpretation] because you might ask that once
it is written “You shall not commit injustice in judgment,” one would
certainly judge with righteousness.  And according to the other
interpretation you might ask that it should have said קדצ (favorably).
Why is it written קדצב (with favor)?  Therefore you need the first
interpretation of “According to its plain meaning.” (R.  Yaakov Taryosh)


nb pirkei avot 1:6 give benefit doubt

Michæl Skobac: “Give everyone the benefit of the doubt.”

… of a doubt.


nb leviticus 20 forbid child sacrifice incest adultery punishment bestiality menstruate ghost familiar spirit
