** Point-by-point review of all sides.

* My own Jewish family.

Ian, as my son.

Angela, as my girlfriend, fiancée, then wife.

Morgan, as my daughter-in-law.

* Models of non-supernatural Jewish belief.

Richard Feynman.  “When I would hear the rabbi tell about some miracle
such as a bush whose leaves were shaking but there wasn’t any wind,
I would try to fit the miracle into the real world and explain it in terms of
natural phenomena.”

Sam Harris.  Waking up podcast.

Stephen Pinker.  Enlightenment now.

“I also think that, once you ‘get over the metaphor’ [because no,
stupid people, God is not ‘Sky Daddy’] … that you might end up
believing that there is a God after all.”

* Tradition of liberal democratic thought.

Non-dogmatic (except orthodoxy).

Isaiah Berlin.  The crooked timber of humanity.

Thomas Cahill.  Gifts of the Jews.

Influences on America.
	We the People of the United (States|Tribes), in Order to form
a more perfect Union,ⁱ establish Justice,⁲ insure domestic Tranquility,
provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare,⁳
and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity,
do ordain and establish this (Constitution|Covenant) for the (United
States of America|Nation of Israel).
  ⁱ tikkun olam
  ⁲ cf establish courts, in the laws of Noah
  ⁳ tzedakah

Rights of women in marriage (eg ketubah, get).

Home as a sanctuary, ordinary people as teachers, meals as a sacrament.

Everyone encouraged to find their own meaning, decide what it means to
them, and transmit that understanding to others.

* Current expressions of hatred towards Jews.

** Arguments from conscience.

* I don’t have to convert, to study the culture and ideas.

* My fate is tied up with Ian and Angela and Morgan in any event.

* I want to participate in a community of people with whom I have
something in common.  However, elements of the community will not
accept me, as a convert, and orthodoxy will never accept me because I
don’t agree with them.

* I want to learn and take into myself the reasons why a community
lasted for 4500 years.

* I want to participate in the literary tradition.

* I want to support Angela’s (and Morgan’s) practice of Judaism,
and create a Jewish home with Angela.

* I can support Angela and Morgan without becoming Jewish myself.

* A lot of people irrationally hate Jews, so I would become (in ways I
am not now, and likely will never otherwise experience) a member of a
minority group which receives physical threats and verbal abuse, and
it mould be on me to help respond to this and protect them.

* I want to better the world, in a community of people who want the
same, and support those who do.

* You won’t be able to assume I agree with you, for either good or bad
reasons.

* I tend to redefine Jewish spiritual terms in ways that work for me
right now, or ways that reflect where I want to be.  I understand
(from the Choosing book by Anita Diamant) that this is encouraged,
or at least allowed.

* Adonai, god, one, master, eloheinu, you, creator of the universe.

The source of conscience, whether divine or evolved, present even in
animals in a simpler way (“bad dog!”).

Us, as the whole of conscientious beings, managing our ecosystem,
which we must preserve to support us.

** Call to action.

I spoke with Cantor Liz Berke on 26 April, and she gave me a 10-month
list of steps to take.  She also gave me a calendar, to let me know when
are the holidays, and what are the weekly readings, among other things.
She gave me a book on the Sabbath, by (then-)Senator Joe Lieberman.

I will talk with Dena and Angela about steps to conversion by the wedding.

I will participate in the Anshe Emet program for Jews by choice, because
the journey of conversion does not stop at the mikvah.
