Diary of Rakust Pulleydriven, first-migrant militia commander, The Folded Banner.

253 Galena.  Responded to report of a kobold thief from Strugufusrulgin.
Became military commander and leader of the Walled Systems, and chased
off the unwelcome intruder.  Also about to fight an animated remnant of the
first two embarks, a two-humped camel skeleton, which interrupted work.


Diary of Likot Tombshoved, third-migrant militia commander, The Folded Banner.

254 Hematite.  Set up a yearlong training schedule for 2 of the 3 soldiers
of the Walled System, dug a barracks, and told them to train there.

Sandstone.  Likot Ceilingfield is a hammerdwarf.  Litast Trusted-
bolted, Ònul Battlegilds, and Ònul Boltstire are marksdwarves.
	Created a new squad, Laborious Anguish, for metal-clad melee
fighters.  Likot Ceilingfield, hammerdwarf leads the combined arms of
Vucar Crystalstraps, axedwarf, and Aban Merchantblockades, macedwarf.
Vucar is also the chief medical dwarf and diagnostician, so he will be
traded out as soldier or medical dwarf as the opportunity arises.
	Trained 1 male hunting dog for hunter Likot Agesseals, and
2 female war dogs for each of the squads.  This leaves 1 male dog
and 1 female dog free to breed and be adopted.
	Plan a drowning chamber for invasions.
	The siege engineer now leads the marksdwarf squad instead of
the metalsmith.

Timber.  Rakust and Ònul reanimated.  Ordered coffins and slabs,
and the military to attack them after it drives off the goblin thieves.
Rakust’s right upper arm earned the name "Braveryflying".
Both melee squads are going after the upper right arm, and then
Rakust’s skeleton, while the marksdwarves hit the third goblin thief
and then the skeleton.  The name of our necromancer enemy is
Bini Rankphlegm, a human, according to a soap maker.  Not sure what
he expects an undead mussel shell to do, other than scare the fishery
workers.  Right, one punch and it’s shattered.  That’s everything
deanimated, now.  The mechanic Aban has trouble grasping, lye maker
Fath is also faint and cannot stand, but overall those battles turned
out well.

Slate.  Axedwarf Medtob to 1M Walled Systems, transfers mace to
3M Helmed Duties, to balance weapons.  4M Tin Decisions under
Fikod Helmcrazy (because wrestler etc) uses sword, mace (Zuglar),
and hammer (Zaneg).  Both squads of 3 now set to train two at a time.
2R Quick Gates picked up Kadôl, and 3R Complex Boards drafted
Stukos.  Lòr to Second Ranged.

Obsidian.  Killed another goblin thief.

255 Granite.  Walled Systems (1M=First Melee) under Likot Tombshoved
uses spear, sword, and mace; Laborious Anguish (2M) under Likot Ceiling-
field uses hammer, sword, and mace; and Helmed Duties (3M) under Urvad
Pastlanced uses sword and axe (so far).  Split marksdwarves into Quick
Gates (2R=Second Ranged) under Logem Yellsboat (because wrestler), and
Complex Boards (3R)  under Minkot Galleydoors, each allowed 250 bolts
to the hunters’ 100.  Marksdwarf squads have equivalent competence.
Need 2 more quivers: slaughter 2 roosters. TODO
  Athel Bellmansion, swordsdwarf, will replace the chief
medical dwarf in 2M Laborious Anguish.  Vucar is now led by Urvad
Pastlanced, swordsdwarf and in the inactive (only 2) 3M Helmed Duties.
Zas Crystalpaddles joins the Quick Gates.  He and the other mechanic
will help secure the sazirkib [bridge-net].

Slate.  Kulet Lancercover’s partial skeleton started rotting inside
the shelter, which apparently killed his ghost.  Sarvesh Tomedrum’s
ghost is also dead.

Felsite.  Dwarves insist on running into the caverns, including fools
with babies, so send in all but the accursed to wipe out all the cave
swallow blowgunners.  The shifting fortunes of battle now activates
Third Melee and inactivates Second Melee, waiting for a migrant.
	Send 2R Quick Gates and 3R Complex Boards against a goblin thief.
They can use the target practice, since they don’t get other training.
	Vucar needs to spend his time diagnosing, relieved of military duty.
Athel will take his place in the 3M Helmed Duties, so 2M needs 2 more.
Also released Litast Trustedbolted from marksdwarf militia duty.
Moved Lòr Earthstrike from 2R to 3R.
	Litast is playing at being a hammerdwarf as well as a marksdwarf.
Better for his broker career that he remain on standby in the militia.
	Stukos is also unconscious.

Hematite.  Start sending in the military to deal with wild animals.
Especially the troglodyte Sundertome in the cavern.  Sent 1M, 3M,
and 4M.  Ranged won’t be as much good down there, with all the
pillars.  They made short work of the troglodytes, with the honors
going to the axedwarves.  Send 2R and 3R after the giant bat and
cave swallow, since they can fly.  Couldn’t get to cave swallow.
The giant bat Parchedphrase took out Stukos trying to wrestle.
Send in 1M, 3M, and 4M as well.  Send the marksdwarves back out
to hit the goblin snatcher.  The ranged squads took out the giant bat,
with the kill going to the swordsdwarf.  Set one ranged squad each
against the kobold thief and the goblin snatcher.  Send one melee
squad against each of three troglodytes.  Now both ranged against
another kobold thief.  Athel died to the cave crocodile Earbattle—
sending all melee squads to kill it, with Likot taking Athel’s place
in 3M.  Also lost Urvad.  Send 2R and 3R to help finish cave crocodile.
Second notable kill in succession for sworsdwarf Dôbar Crystalaxes,
who will now lead 3M Helmed Duties.  1M inactive, waiting for soldier.
Sent 2R and 3R against a trogdolyte, but the militia commander took
care of it.  Nothing important to attack at the moment.
