nb dwarf cast current role


nb first embark

Ral Vutokfikuk.  Expedition leader, miner, appraiser, judge of intent,
consoler; broker.

Stinthäd Ëlotsåkzul.  Carpenter, wound dresser.

Tholtig Melbildodók.  Mason, building designer.

Deduk Zastaron.  Hunt, marksdwarf, ambusher.

Melbil Melbilnish.  Metalsmith, weaponsmith, armorsmith.

Sazir Mistêmkol.  Farmer, cook, grower.

Tun Nosinggusil.  Mechanic, diagnostician.


nb third embark

Edëm Singleshield, dead.  Miner, stone crafter.

Eshtân Auraquakes, dead.  Miner, mason, jeweler.

Èrith Shieldbelts, dead.  Wood cutter, carpenter, wood burner,
furnace operator.

Zasit Dabblingpalace, dead.  Animal trainer, herbalist, building
designer, butcher, fisherdwarf, fish cleaner.

Ilral Daggerclashes, dead.  Grower, cook.

Deler Ironcontrol, dead.  Grower, brewer.

Shorast Coloredmined, dead.  Expedition leader, mechanic, appraiser,
record keeper, negotiator, judge of intent, consoler, bookkeeper,
broker.

Åmdoren, dead.  Stray pet dog.


nb third embark first immigrant wave

Rakust Pulleydriven, first killed in single combat with two-humped
camel skeleton.  Masonry, stone detailing, milking.  Replaced Eshtân
as mason.

Tun Tinfolds, dead.  Plant gathering, spinning, pressing; gem cutting,
gem setting.  Replace Eshtân as jeweler.

Ïteb Shootromance, dead.  Glazing.

Ber Paintsqueezed, dead.  Weaver, tanner.

Erush Charcoalmansions, dead.  Wood crafting.

Mebzuth Cityguild, dead.  Fishing, fish cleaning, fish dissection.
Replace Zasit as fish cleaner.

Vabôk Flukecobalt, fisherdwarf.  Butchery, tanning, field farming, fishing.
Replace Zasit as fisherdwarf.

Ïngiz Diamondfolded, dead.  Field farming, dyeing, cooking.


nb third embark second immigrant wave

Kulet Lancercover, dead.  Speardwarf.  Potter, tracker, pump operator.

Mûthkat Royalarches, woodcrafter.  Wood crafter, fishing, fish cleaning,
fish dissection, tanner, milker, herbalist.  Replace Mebzuth as
fishery worker.

Sarvesh Tomedrum, dead.  Macedwarf.  Fisherdwarf, mechanic.

Ùshrir Plankenjoy, animal trainer.  Siege engineer, marksdwarf, dodger.
Shearer, animal trainer, animal dissector, trapper.


nb third embark third immigrant wave

Ineth Whippick, miner.  Miner, mason.

Libash Fencelightnings, wood cutter.  Marksdwarf, dodger.  Wood cutter, brewer, 
animal trainer, animal caretaker, animal dissector, wood burner, carpenter.

Dôbar Crystalaxes, miner.  Swordsdwarf, dodger, shield, armor.
Tracker, mason, engraver, miner.

Minkot Galleydoors, blacksmith.  Marksdwarf, dodge, shield, armor.
Tracker, metalsmith, record keeper, animal caretaker, animal
dissector, trapper, milker, grower, beekeeper.

Logem Yellsboat, blacksmith.  Marksdwarf, dodger, ambusher.
Metalsmith, gem cutter, gem setter, animal caretaker, trapper,
wood burner.

Fath Lenstome, jeweler.  Gem cutter, gem setter, fish dissector.

Iden Drinkboat, miner.  Gem cutter, wound dresser, suturer,
miner, furnace operator.

Bim Lawtin, bone carver.  Bone carver, shearer, presser, cheese maker,
butcher.

Zulban Traderoom, bone carver.  Bone carver, brewer, cheese maker,
presser.

Ingish Tongslulled, clothier.  Clothier, glazer, fisherdwarf, fish cleaner,
fish dissector.

Stukos Waxedtrumpets, leatherworker.  Leatherworker, milker.

Deduk Orbsglazed, miner.  Leatherworker, mechanic, pump operator,
siege operator, miner.

îton Cometpaints, cook.  Wax worker, thresher, cook, spinner.

Cog Warmthtrades, fisherdwarf.  Fisherdwarf, fish cleaner, fish dissector.

Kol Bannerrazors, fisherdwarf.  Fisherdwarf, fish cleaner, fish dissector.

Thob Tonedwhipped, fish dissector.  Fish dissector.

Kivish Pagedtemples, fisherdwarf.  Fisherdwarf.

Bëmbul Spraydaggers, planter.  Miller, thresher, grower.

Lorbam Howlseals, herbalist.  Cook, herbalist, dyer.

Onol Sabresingle, herbalist.  Brewer, cook, herbalist.

Rovod Blizzardsmerchant, brewer.  

Likot Agesseals, hunter.  Marksdwarf, ambusher, dodger.  Brewer.

Fath Ledbanner, lye maker.  Lye maker, bowyer, fisherdwarf, fish cleaner,
fish dissector.

Fath Catgalleys, spinner.  Spinner.

Likot Tombshoved, tanner.  Speardwarf, dodger, shield, armor.  Tanner,
grower.

Sibrek Beardedmined, engineer.  Siege operator, siege engineer,
macedwarf, dodger, shield, armor, mechanic, milker, grower, bee
keeper.

Sibrek Claspgrips, dwarven child.

Ilral Channelstandards, dwarven child.


nb third embark fourth immigrant wave

Eshtân Cryptrubbed, ranger.  Marksdwarf, ambusher, dodger.
Animal dissector, trapper, cheese maker, herbalist, presser.

Datan Stockadetown, metalsmith.  Metalsmith, weaponsmith, armorsmith,
brewer.

Vucar Crystalstraps, gem setter and chief medical dwarf.
Axedwarf, dodger, shield, armor, wrestler, striker, kicker.
Gem setter, diagnostician, wound dresser, mason, engraver.

Kulet Smithpeaked, fish cleaner.  Marksdwarf, siege operator, siege
engineer, bowyer, dodger, shield, armor.  Fish cleaner, fish dissector,
glassmaker miner, carpenter, miller, cheese maker, gem setter,
stone crafter, leatherworker, mechanic, wound dresser, suturer,
animal trainer, animal caretaker, weaver, milker, fisherdwarf, dyer,
spinner, glazer, ambusher.

Mosus Guilddriven, fish cleaner.  Fish cleaner, lye maker.

Vabôk Bittenmirrors, cook.  Milker, cook, beekeeper.

Likot Charmedplank, beekeeper.  Beekeeper, miller, thresher, grower.

Aban Merchantblockades, mechanic.  Macedwarf, dodger, shield, armor.
Mechanic, brewer, cheese maker, milker.

Degël Pulledtrade, bone doctor.  Marksdwarf, dodger, shield, armor.
Bone doctor, wound dresser, tracker, animal trainer, animal caretaker,
animal dissector.
