aban avuzsazirmafol tunur … kib saziradilÿton kezkïg ugoshódkelid
shatagistrath … kirondatanavuz ustosteshkad angngotololum
―Bomonolthÿkut fragments

home-mountain book

build mine-bridge-chamber style
net bridge-wall-hall connect hollow-tunnel-metal-rock jewel-cluster
holy-iron-mine anger-price red-ghost-disperse

We build in mine, bridge, chamber tradition.  A network of [draw?]
bridge-walled halls connected by tunnels of ore and jewel clusters.
The hallowed hematite vein is the toll of (our) angers, where we lay
to rest our angry undead.


Diary of Shorast Coloredmined, embark expedition leader, The Folded Banner.

253 Granite.  The Folded Banner stopped aside two other wagons. 
Whatever happened to both of them left their animals as skeletons,
and scattered a few of their belongings.  No sign of their bodies,
either dead for burial, or live to take back in chains for deriliction
of duty.
	They barely started to dig out an all-pile below an embark shelter,
and stairs down a water tunnel and cistern.  The simple plans seem sound,
from what we can tell, and there are no unusual fissures or echoes
from the stone, so we’ll continue to set up the embark shelter.
	I’ll start the books now, to know what we can trade before winter.
Probably mechanisms, to control the many drawbridges that isolate burrows.
The first layer of the embark shelter will be trade, food, and capentry.
The second will be a general stockpile, to unload the wagon(s), and
the third will be for the stonedwarves.
	Laid out a general store for shelter: seven lines of food and sundries,
two for a hospital, four for defense.  Let the other wagons be collected,
as the miners dig out the water tunnel, small cistern, stonedwarves burrow,
and farm burrow, all stacked in our embark shelter.

Slate.  Hollowed three levels of shelter burrow.  Started building
workshops and producing items.  4 plots and kitchen, still, farmer’s;
carpenter’s; trade depot; jeweler’s, mason’s, mechanic’s; crafter’s;
wood furnace, smelter, and forge.  Rock mugs for trade.  A small
meeting hall and dining room by the outsiders, and a small dormitory
by the stonedwarves.  Top priority is cistern and well before winter.

Felsite.  Finished meeting hall and dining room.  Ran out of ordinary
rock, so mined a frame, found rough red zircon.  Told miner/mason
Eshtân Auraquakes to cut gems, and woodworker/carpenter Èrith
Shieldbelts to make charcoal and smelt ore.

Hematite summer.  Migrants to relieve Eshtân as mason and jeweler,
and Zasit as fisherdwarf and fish cleaner.  Overall, a stoneworker,
a gem cutter, two farmers, a fishery worker, a tanner, a wood crafter,
and a glazer.  Set up a fishery by the river.  108 food.

Malachite.  Mining galena hematite¸ and native copper.  71 drink of
164 total food, for 15 dwarves and 19 animals.  Exported 0 of 9,486
created wealth.

Galena.  Responded to report of a kobold thief from Strugufusrulgin.
Rakust Pulleydriven is a competent swordsdwarf, so became military
commander and leader of the Walled Systems, and chased off the
unwelcome intruder.  Also encountered an animated remnant of the first
two embarks, a two-humped camel skeleton, which interrupted work,
and killed Rakust sent to dispatch it.  Returned Eshtân to masonry and
stone detailing, to make a coffin for Rakust.

Limestone.  Camel still disruptive.  Built six nest boxes for poultry.

Sandstone.  Finally cleared the path to the well.  Skeleton starting
to kill dogs, so I will lead a citizen’s-militia squad to kill it.


Diary of Ïngiz Diamondfolded, first-migrant planter, The Folded Banner.

253 Sandstone.  Knighthold the Velvet Slaughter, an undead two-hump
camel skeleton, or the ensuing panic, killed Rakust, Eshtân, Zasit,
Deler, Ilral, and Shorast, as well as a water buffalo calf, turkey gobbler,
three stray dogs, and the dog Åmdoren.  Erush, Tun, and Ïteb are missing,
presumed dead.  Our new expedition leader, Ber Paintsqueezed,
is unconscious but unharmed, and Mebzuth is pale and damaged.
No medical talent or hospital burrow, so Mebzuth may not survive.
15 drink of 334 total food, for 6 dwarves and 22 animals.
Need to assess remaining talent and reassign work.
	Stonedwarf Edëm can mine and craft rock pots and mugs, and
will have to be our mason (we need coffins), mechanic, and jeweler.
Èrith can cut wood and do carpentry, burn wood and smelt ore.
If Ber wakes, will have to do something more useful than tan or weave:
probably broker, and help out Edëm with mechanisms and cutting gems.
If Mebzuth recovers, she can broker, and maybe light work at the fishery.
Vabôk can farm, fish, butcher, and tan.  I can farm, cook, and dye.


Diary of Ber Paintsqueezed, first-migrant expedition leader,
The Folded Banner.

253 Sandstone.  The fighting isn’t over, and the poultry are taking
the brunt of it.  Disgusting purple clouds of rot—let our refuse clutter
the green grass!  Found Mebzuth dead, no ghosts yet.  11 drink of
307 food, for 5 dwarves and 22 animals.  Rebuilding trade depot,
still, and farmer’s workshop.

Timber.  Èrith is melancholy.  Ïngiz is berserk.  Migrants: two soldiers
(which we dearly need), woodcrafter, and animal trainer.  Kulet will
command militia and squad of other military migrants, now only Sarvesh.
Need to establish barracks, probably at end of copper vein.
Kulet couldn’t handle the hostility around here.  No trade caravan.
Vabôk will also gather plants and brew: we have 8 drink of 226 food
for 7 dwarves and 23 animals.


Diary of Vabôk Flukecobalt, first-migrant expedition leader,
The Folded Banner.

253 Timber.  Rakust was the first to die, my husband rotting in front of me;
since then I revel in this chaos and disorder.  Edëm went berserk and
killed Ber with his pick.  The Mountainhome diplomat left unhappy,
no trade.  Edëm killed Ïngiz, so that’s sorted.  Ber killed Kulet, and
Edëm killed Sarvesh, so no need for barracks.  7 drink of 225 food for
4 dwarves and 23 animals.  More miasma.  The merchants’ hammerdwarf
Inod Doortrenches and the marksdwarf Ùshrir ftook down vomiting and
retching Edëm with gut shots.  Got a still working, to drink as we die and rot.

Moonstone.  30–40–48 drink of 323–333–328 food, for 4 dwarves and
23 animals.  The merchants have been watching us fall apart, and are
leaving soon, as we’ve been unable to set up and staff a trade depot.
Partly my fault I guess, I just found the plans.  General orders to
gather plants, farm, brew, and cook, to keep us alive a while.
Ùshrir wil keep books and broker.  Èrith slipped away.

Opal.  55 seeds, 177 drink, and 473 food, for 3 dwarves and 23 animals.
The ghost appeared of the embark recruit Deler.  We should build a
tradecraft burrow and floodable approach, since shelter is too cluttered.
But for now we just grow food and drink and hold on until more come.
Mebzuth has also risen to haunt us.  All orders for farmer’s workshop.
69 seeds, 234 drink, and 542 food, for 3 dwarves and 23 animals, which
includes 74 hen eggs from the nest boxes.  Start preparing easy and
fine meals.

Obsidian.  83–109 seeds and 279–370 drink of 599–724 food,  for 3
dwarves and 23 animals.  No meat, 26 fish, 25 plant, 194 other.
1 craftsdwarf, 1 fishery worker, 1 farmer.  Meeting area, with people
and animals gathered around, makes it difficult to rebuild nearby
buildings.

254 Granite.  121–128 seeds and 409–433 drink of 765–792 food for
3 dwarves.  47 chicks and ducklings hatched, now 70 animals total.
The small dining room, covered in chicks, no longer a meeting area
Plan to wall in the pastures and remove upward slopes.
	28 migrants, including my daughter Iden Drinkboat!  Third wave:
miner, wood cutter (to be carpenter/wood burner), stoneworker
(also miner), blacksmith etc., jeweler, gem cutter (also miner/
furnace operator), 2 bone carver, clothier, 2 leather workers
(1 mechanic/miner), cook, 2 fishery workers, fish dissector,
fisherdwarf, grower, 3 farmers, 2 brewers, lye maker, spinner, tanner,
engineer, and two children.

Slate.  Minkot Galleydoors replaces Ùshrir Plankenjoy as record keeper.
Plenty of bone around; create butcher’s workshop; reuse craftsdwarf’s
workshop; plan trade burrow.  Build press and quern for miller, leatherworks
and tanner’s workshop for leatherworker, all in top level of shelter.
128–110 seeds and 431–445 drink of 785–806 food for 28–31 dwarves
and 80–84 animals.  All orders for butcher’s workshop.
	Should create a walled meeting hall/dining area exposed to outside.
Should create a bedroom burrow (levels of a 3x3 array of 3x3 bedrooms)
for those dwarves without workplace bedrooms.
	Dug out the depot level of the tradecraft burrow.  Planned wall
and drawbridge to isolate deramped pastures.  All dwarves busy.
Replaced the trade depot.

Felsite.  140 seeds, 484 drink, and 25 meat of 977 food, for 31 dwarves
and 84 animals.  Convicted Ïgniz of the murder of Tun, Ïteb, and Mebzuth.
Convicted Ber of the murder of Kulet.  Should farm within walls above
ground, for variety, and because there are many seeds to be had here.
Tell the kitchen not to cook away the drinks distilled from aboveground
plants.

Hematite.  Elves from Aquaneinefa, "The Dabbling Fell", whined that
Ùshrir accidentally offered them the bin the gems were in, and refused
a profit of 300 on trade of 1510 of our gems.  More gems for the
humans and dwarves, then.  All they had that we actually needed were
bags, to hold seeds.  Broker got back to work.
	169 seeds and 519 drink of around 1100 food, for 31 dwarves
and 84 animals.  Set up a yearlong training schedule for 2 of the 3
soldiers of the Walled System, dug a barracks, and told them to train
there.  The blacksmith will burn wood.
	Digging a deep shaft, down fifty layers, broke into a cavern while
enlarging a marble take.  Plan a drawbridge and controlling lever to
isolate it; upper drawbridges ready as backup.
	Fourth wave of migrants!  The ranger, jack-of-all-trades, and
bone doctor will join the earlier-migrant wood cutter, blacksmiths,
and hunter in an inactive marksdwarf squad, the Diamond Vises.
Metalsmith, gem setter, fish cleaner, farmer, beekeeper, mechanic.
166 seeds and 487 drinks in about 1120 food, for 40 dwarves and
88 animals.

Malachite.  Constructing a wall around an outside farm, with an inside
connection to the rest of the fort.  Bone carvers can also burn wood.
Smith leather and copper helms and armor.  Make pig iron bars for
steel, since we found some flux.  Militia is sparring in barracks
slightly smaller than the chamber, to allow storage along the walls.
Dug a little tunnel under the river, to get to the other side.
Craft rock mugs for trade.  Unforbid various items, including seeds
for more planting, leathers so Stukos’ strange mood does not end
poorly, and corpses for bone crafts.  Still need bags to e.g. mill plants.
198 seeds and 491 drinks in about 1190 food, for 40 dwarves and
88 animals.
	Stukos created an artifact giant-bat leather cloak, “Parchdim the
Cross Naughtiness of Roaring”.  Need isolated storage for artifacts,
and other treasure, eventually behind a forbidden artifact door.
For now, turn the center of the mines into a room.

Galena.  Finished drawbridge by cavern, connected lever: we are now
isolated from the cavern.
	The ghost of Ïgniz battered unconscious a six-year-old child
(daughter of Cog and Minkot), and removed her upper left leg,
so it’s time to put him to rest.  Placed many coffins along the red walk,
and ordered slabs.  Dispersed Mebzuth, and Deler just after he rose.
She recuperates in the barracks, watching sparring practice.
	40 dwarves, by the standard accountings: 88 other animals,
13 farmers, 7 fishery workers, 5 craftsdwarves, 3 miners, 2 children,
2 jewelers, 2 metalsmiths, 1 macedwarf, 1 swordsdwarf, 1 engineer,
1 administrator, 1 ranger, 1 woodworker, no trained animals,
no peasants, and no stoneworkers.  No adult dogs to train as war dogs.
	Planned a store for artifact furniture, (siege) ammo, finished goods,
weapons, trap components, and armor, with a lever in the barracks.
	Set out both the melee and the marksdwarf squad to scare off a
kobold thief.  Bolts, spear, mace, and wrestling mutilated the enemy,
and got back to work and military training.
	We have enough ore, and few enough trees, that it makes sense
to delve for magma, to power forges and smelters.  Set up a drawbridge
before we delve deeper than the cavern we found.  TODO
	Appointed Vucar the chief medical dwarf.  Other than a few
hungry dwarves, the only medical case is that of Ilral Channelstandards,
who lost the ability to stand, and requires a crutch.  Ilral was brought
to rest in the barracks bed by the cook Îton.

Limestone.  Smoothing a hospital burrow, digging a new small cistern.
Make more bolts for hunters, to supplement our meager supply
of meat, and so the marksdwarves have something to shoot with.
But out of copper bars.  Found honeybee colony, ordered beehive
for mead.  19 fish, 137 seeds, and 517 drink in about 1240 food.
Trim bar production to (pig) iron/steel for armor and edged weapons,
silver for war hammer and mace, and copper for bolts.  Should start
a clothing industry to employ the clothier.

Sandstone.  Murdered Kulet haunts us.
	Datan has been found dead, but we’re not sure why, in the bed
next to Ilral in the barracks, just after stopped work needing coal.
It’s not good to lose a metalsmith.  Bëmbul is in the barracks on break.
Likot and Sibrek are individually drilling in combat practice.  Ilral is
resting.  Kulet Smithpeaked has a wide range of experience, lots of
kids, and is looking thirsty despite much alcohol around, so I think
I’ll post her alone to explore the cavern and find water.  Logem will
head a new marksdwarf squad, the Quick Gates.
	Fifth wave of migrants: miner, craftsdwarf, clothier, weaver,
2 farmers, beekeeper, presser, thresher, wood burner, siege
engineer, and 2 children.  Likot Ceilingfield is a hammerdwarf.
Litast Trustedbolted, Ònul Battlegilds, and Ònul Boltstire are
marksdwarves.
	Created a new squad, Laborious Anguish, for metal-clad melee
fighters.  Likot Ceilingfield, hammerdwarf leads the combined arms of
Vucar Crystalstraps, axedwarf, and Aban Merchantblockades, macedwarf.
Vucar is also the chief medical dwarf and diagnostician, so he will be
traded out as soldier or medical dwarf as the opportunity arises.
	No meat, 18 fish, 13 plant, 130 seeds, and 499 drink of about
1280 food total for 52 dwarves.  34 chicks and 13 ducklings,
eventually for meat, at least those not kept to breed.  They are
decimating the grass of their pasture, so we'll have to rotate their
pasture, possibly outside the defensive wall.
	Trained 1 male hunting dog for hunter Likot Agesseals, and
2 female war dogs for each of the squads.  This leaves 1 male dog
and 1 female dog free to breed and be adopted.
	Secured the vampire Kulet in the cavern.  Gathering wood
(if we give her an axe) and spider webs, she can supply several
industries down in the cavern, passing goods through one of two
chambers: one at a time open to the workshops, and the other open to
the vampire.  Cave spider webs, as a source of silk, should keep busy
the weaver, spinner, and clothier.  TODO
	My daughter Iden created an artifact hematite grate,
“The Odors of Amusement”!  It will also go into artifact storage.
	Who’s idle and why?  Probably temporary, between jobs:
miner, hunter, militia captain.  Checked workshops for jeweler,
wood burner, mechanic; farmer, brewer, cook, thresher, butcher
and leatherworker.  Workshops needed for clothier, weaver,
spinner, and beekeeper.  The siege engineer now leads the
marksdwarf squad instead of the metalsmith.
	Plan a drowning chamber for invasions.

Timber.  109 seeds and 487 drink of about 1280 food.
	Digging textile burrow and exchange chambers at cavern.
	A single boulder blocks trade caravan from mountainhome.
Ordered it smoothed out of the way.  If no-one gets to that we could
open another entrance to the trade depot.  They decided to unload
anyway.  Sell gems and rock mugs.  Declare the trade depot a burrow
to get me and the broker there.  Set all miners to stone detailing to
smooth boulder preventing trade.  Finally traded, gave up 20% profit.
The mountainhome wants splints, quivers, bracelets, leather water
skins, thread, backpacks, toys, battle axes, amulets, handwear, and
footwear.
	Rakust and Ònul reanimated.  Ordering coffins and slabs, and
the military to attack them after it drives off the goblin thieves.
Rakust’s right upper arm earned the name "Braveryflying".
Both melee squads are going after the upper right arm, and then
Rakust’s skeleton, while the marksdwarves hit the third goblin thief
and then the skeleton.  The name of our necromancer enemy is
Bini Rankphlegm, a human, according to a soap maker.  Not sure what
he expects an undead mussel shell to do, other than scare the fishery
workers.  Right, one punch and it’s shattered.  That’s everything
deanimated, now.  The mechanic Aban has trouble grasping, lye maker
Fath is also faint and cannot stand, but overall those battles turned
out well.

Moonstone.  Our food stocks after trading (and some butchery?):
69 meat, 79 fish, 54 plant, 283 seeds, 579 drink of about 1720 food.
From the metalsmith order silver maces and warhammers, lead chains
and sarcophagi, and copper bolts, mail shirts, and helms.  Finally
ran out of barrels from our embark, so set the carpenter to barrels
and the craftsdwarf to rock pots.  Finally thought to let haulers
gather refuse from outside, to process skeletons into bone bolts
and helms, and shell helms.
	I have a granddaughter from Iden and Thob: Ïteb Savedtraded!
Such a lovely little jewel they baptized to Uzol of jewels.  Fath and Bëmbul
also had their first daughter, Domas Shadowsabre, dedicated to Kodor the
dominant lilac of light, the sun, and day.  Kivish and Deduk had their
first son, Ònul Channeledflicker, also of Uzol.  It’s baby season!

Opal.  I set up a burrow in the hospital for the mothers and babies to
go to when we spot a baby snatcher.  Appropriately enough, the chief
medical dwarf is smoothing the floor of the hospital-in-progress when
he’s not on duty.  I forgot to lift the civilian alert, which is why Ùshrir
and I haven’t left the depot until now.  Fath lye-maker died of infection,
which is exactly why we need a hospital with a dedicated staff, and a
plan for a soap industry.
	32–9 meat, 18–20 fish, 22–25 plant, 259–282 seeds, and 548–573
drink, and –579 prepared meals.
	Convicted the vampire of murdering Datan.
	Maisma down in the dorm by the stonedwarves as Fath rotted.
With as many idle hands as there are around here, it’s sad no-one got
to her.  Hospital floor smooth, ready to set up.  Iden, Thob, and
little Ïteb get a room in the hospital, since she’s a suturer.

Obsidian.  Idle jeweler can mine, bone carver can butcher, brewer can
gather plants and farm.
	Hospital smoothed walls and floor, we can start to engrave the
walls to give the injured something to look at, ponder, and study as
they recover.
	660 prepared meals, 607 drink, 90 animals (10 pets), 35 plants,
17 fish, 5 meat, and 278 seeds for 17 farmers (should build another
underground farm below outside, almost-walled-off farm), 8 crafts-
dwarves (should build a craft level below the trade depot), 7 fishery
workers, 6 children, 5 miners, 5 trained animals, 2 macedwarves,
axedwarf, speardwarf, woodworker, ranger, metalsmith, jeweler,
and administrator.  Exported 3200 of about 130k wealth.
	Ordered querns and beds for the new underground farm.
Set clothes-makers near cavern, and soap-makers below hospital
(rebember not many non-hospital levels with access to the well).
	Killed another goblin thief.
	Due to confusion the area below the hospital was set up to
make clothes, just like the chamber near the cavern.  Ordered a new
area dug above hospital (which is where it could be generally) for
soap-makers (remember to limit non-hospital levels with access
to its well).

Metal production report.  Restricted marble for use as flux. 
Should devote copper to (bismuth if we had it) bronze.
Ordered smelter to produce steel, pig iron, iron; bonze from ores
and bars, brass; electrum from ores; silver and lead from galena.
Forge silver war hammer, mace; {bronze crossbow, bolts, spear,
battle axe, mail shirt, helm, and pick}; [lead chain, sarcophagus].

Production chains:
	42 hematite → 30 iron [5 anvils, 2 crossbows, pick, cap, dagger] + flux → 2 pig iron + flux → steel → 38 bolts, anvil
	(9 cassiterite + 29 tetrahedrite | 23 copper nuggets) | (4 tin + 10 copper) → {bronze} → 21 bolts, 2 crossbows, battle axe, buckler
	170 galena | 12 silver nuggets | 29 tetrahedrite⁰⁻⁴ → 13 silver → 7 silver war hammers, 7 silver maces
	170 galena → 40 lead → chain, sarcophagus
	17 gold nuggets + 170 galena | 12 silver nuggets | 29 tetrahedrite⁰⁻⁴ → electrum
	(10 sphalerite + 29 tetrahedrite | 23 copper nuggets | {malachite}) | ({zinc} + 10 copper) → brass → trade metal products

Requirements:
	93 marble → flux
	42 charcoal → fuel

Reserve chains:
	10 copper → 168 bolts, 6 battle axes, 6 helms, 5 picks, 4 spears, 3 breastplates, 2 daggers, short sword, crossbow, shield
	4 gold → noble metal products
	garnierite → 4 nickel → magma-safe metal products
	{bismuthinite} + 9 cassiterite + 29 tetrahedrite | 23 copper nuggets → bismuth + 4 tin + 10 copper² → bismuth bronze → 33 bolts, 2 picks, 2 crossbows, battle axe

255 Granite.  Should plan a smoothed and engraved burrow with meeting
halls of dining room, statue garden and zoo.  Since this will be a
common location for dwarves to gather, it should have its own water.
So, it could be below the hospital.  Or, grant chairs and tables to
bedrooms, but then there would be no parties.  To honor avuzuthar
[mine-first], mining out from walls of burrows, so fortress not so
kastar [block-square], instead more sazirkib [bridge-netted].
	704 prepared meals, 559 drink, 90 animals (10 pets), 37 plants,
28 fish, no meat, and 269 seeds for 53?  dwarves.  It was just brought
to my attention that Bim had a baby by lye-maker Fath before he died,
born just before the latest goblin theif baby snatcher was dispatched.
Her name is Dastot Blotdoor, devoted to Ad Loafcleared the Soapy House,
of hospitality.  I hope Bim finds hospitality as a single mother.
	Finished clearing soapmaker area above hospital, and planned
it out, built soapmaker’s shop and ashery.  Ordered leather armor and
helms from tanned hides.  Placed hive.
	Migrants: Athel Bellmansion, swordsdwarf, will replace the
chief medical dwarf in Laborious Anguish.  Vucar is now led by Urvad
Pastlanced, swordsdwarf and in the inactive (only 2) Helmed Duties.
Zas Crystalpaddles joins the Quick Gates.  He and the other mechanic
will help secure the sazirkib [bridge-net].  Also wood cutter, wax
worker, fishery worker, fish dissector, 2 farmers, milker, shearer,
and a child.  Reassign broker administration to Kûbuk Canyontomes?
No, no other appraiser.
	Military: Walled Systems (1M=First Melee) under Likot Tombshoved
uses spear, sword, and mace; Laborious Anguish (2M) under Likot Ceiling-
field uses hammer, sword, and mace; and Helmed Duties (3M) under Urvad
Pastlanced uses sword and axe (so far).  Split marksdwarves into Quick
Gates (2R=Second Ranged) under Logem Yellsboat (because wrestler), and
Complex Boards (3R)  under Minkot Galleydoors, each allowed 250 bolts
to the hunters’ 100.  Marksdwarf squads have equivalent competence.
Need 2 more quivers: slaughter 2 roosters. TODO
	Fath is fey in the jeweler’s workshop screaming for plant cloth
(order loom to weave a cloth from pig tail or rope reed thread),
silk cloth (cave spider silk cloth), rough gems (has rose quartz), and
bones (not from roosters; try bull and yak bull).
	Digging out a level below the trade depot to create trade items:
carpenter’s workshop (splints), leatherworks (quivers, water skins,
backpack), craftsdwarf’s workshop (bracelets, toys, amulets), farmer’s
workshop (thread), a pile for copper battle axes, and a clothier’s
shop (handwear, footwear).  Each craft level should have 3 beds,
3 input 3x3 piles, 3 workshops, and 3 output piles (1x9 for each
trading civilization).  TODO
	789 prepared meals, 563 drink, 96 animals (11 pets), 20 plants,
11 fish, no meat, and 276 seeds for 21 farmers, 10 craftsdwarves,
9 fishery workers, 8 children, 5 trained animals, 4 miners, 2 wood
workers, 2 jewelers, 2 engineers, 2 macedwarves, stoneworker, ranger,
metalsmith, administrator, swordsdwarf, and speardwarf.  Exported 3200
of about 142k wealth.
	Need to link and flood hospital cistern.  TODO
	Laid out boundaries of shelter burrow for emergencies,
including all its levels and levers.
	Should dig out a level below the farms entirely for prepared meals.  TODO
	Libash Fencelightnings became a legendary woodcutter!

Slate.  More migrants: animal dissector, armorer, 2 gem setters,
craftsdwarf, 3 farmers, beekeeper, lye maker, tanner, clerk, child.
Axedwarf Medtob to Walled Systems (1M), transfers mace to Helmed
Duties (3M), to balance weapons.  Tin Decisions (4M) under Fikod
Helmcrazy (because wrestler etc) uses sword, mace (Zuglar), and
hammer (Zaneg).  Both squads of 3 now set to train two at a time.
Quick Gates (2R) picked up Kadôl, and Complex Boards (3R) drafted
Stukos.  Yet more migrants: bowyer, jeweler, butcher, lye maker,
siege engineer.  Lòr to Quick Gates.  Should plan bowyer’s workshop as
part of dedicated outdoor-activity burrow near animals.  Include bowyer,
carpenter, kennel, leatherworker, butcher (outside, or with walled-off
channel to outside), tanner, farmer’s workshop to process plant and
spin thread from animals, and appropriate piles and bedrooms.  TODO
	Dig out the center of a frame to store metals near the
charcoal-fueled workshops.  Move ash to the metal bars, and build a
kiln to refine the gypsum powder.
	Aban and Datan have a baby girl!  Kulet Walledsandaled,
devoted to Ral of minerals.  That makes 85 dwarves in the village:
26 farmers, 11 craftsdwarves, 9 children, 9 fishery workers, 5 jewelers,
(5 trained animals), 4 miners, 3 woodworkers, 3 engineers, 2 rangers,
2 metalsmiths, 2 admins, and a peasant; protected by 3 swordsdwarves,
2 macedwarves, 2 hammerdwarves, and a speardwarf, fed by 806
prepared meals, 566 drink, 97 animals (13 pets), 76 meat (bull, yak bull,
and 2 roosters), 16 fish, and 10 plants from 261 seeds.
	Kulet Lancercover’s partial skeleton started rotting inside
the shelter, which apparently killed his ghost.  Sarvesh Tomedrum’s
ghost is also dead.
	Fath Lenstome created an artifact rose quartz cage,
“Fillriddled the Deep Summit”, with images of crescent moons.
Maybe we can put the vampire in it for ever once she outlives her
usefulness.
	Here’s a lesson learned: create a drawbridge against the
river, and create a drawbridge to tap each water tunnel, instead of
mining into the tunnel and hoping it falls down stairs fast enough.

Felsite.  I’ve screwed up just about everything.  First I mined into
the water tunnel, without being able to control the flow.  Then I had
the vampire in place to be drowned, and foolishly ordered her to mine
until she died, which made her pick up equipment, which made her go on
break.  Now she’s been seen as a vampire, I don’t know if I will be
able to get her back under control again.  Meanwhile walling up the
hospital, which is about to be flooded as high as the river, which is
above the highest level of the hospital burrow.  She returned to
station, so I walled her up behind microcline in the soon-to-be-
flooded hospital burrow.  She killed the miner Deduk, father of
young Ònul—her second very useful dwarf killed, and a father as well.
Going to keep her on station until there is water on the other side of
those block pillars.  If she tantrums and tearn them down when we
release her from duty, she will drown herself.  Clearing everything
out of the hospital area.  The wall to seal it off is suspended until
it’s clear or the water rises.  TODO
	Dwarves insist on running into the caverns, including fools
with babies, so send in the military to wipe out all the cave swallow
blowgunners.  Lost Aban—what is going to happen to her baby?
	Elven caravan arrived.  Offer what few gems we have cut to
make amends.  While the cavern appears safe, mine gems.  TODO


Diary of "Kulet Smithpeaked", accursed of Onget Gravelboulders.

254 Sandstone.  It seems they know I drained the valued metalsmith.
The militia commander posted me alone to the cavern, had a drawbridge
sealed behind me, and suspended my station, free from current duty,
but alone on my squad to order further.  They probably intend to use
me down here, as far as they can, until I die to a forgotten beast.
I’ve got nothing better to do, so I’ll play at their game, and be
productive until they forget and let me back in.
	Inventory my surroundings and affordances.  No hostiles:
no weapon.  With seeds I could farm.  Marble walls with many gems:
no pick.  Also no channelling for irrigation.  Giant cave spider webbing:
I need to build a loom.  How shall I build a loom, without an axe to
cut down a cavern tree, or a pick to mine stone?  How should I make an
axe or pick, without an anvil?  Imprisoned, I’m not likely to get a pick,
but if I play nice I may get an axe.  In the meantime I might gather,
and make thread and clothes, or let them process, which lessens their
dependency on my skills to make goods, and increases their own.
What is there to gather?  Giant cave spider webbing.  With an axe,
I could cut only tower-cap and fungiwood (I’m not very deep).

Timber.  I hear digging near the drawbridge.  They are probably
hollowing rooms for me to fill, the cowards.

Moonstone.  After a quiet period, they’re back at digging close to
the stairs.

Opal.  Exploring the cavern a bit.  Many different gems in the walls.
I really want a drink.

Obsidian.  My first company: a troll and troglodytes.

255 Granite.  The trogdolytes make bold to attack.  Nothing I can’t dodge.

Felsite.  Ha! They let me out thinking I would seal up a bridge and
drown myself on station.  When that did’t work out they thought they
walled me up and let me mine, and that was just the excuse I needed to
go on break and feed on a miner.  They got me back on station and
walled me up behind some microline, as the fools clear out a hospital.

