Diary of Shorast Coloredmined, embark expedition leader, The Folded Banner.

253 Granite.  The Folded Banner stopped aside two other wagons. 
Whatever happened to both of them left their animals as skeletons,
and scattered a few of their belongings.  No sign of their bodies,
either dead for burial, or live to take back in chains for deriliction
of duty.
	They barely started to dig out an all-pile below an embark shelter,
and stairs down a water tunnel and cistern.  The simple plans seem sound,
from what we can tell, and there are no unusual fissures or echoes
from the stone, so we’ll continue to set up the embark shelter.
	I’ll start the books now, to know what we can trade before winter.
Probably mechanisms, to control the many drawbridges that isolate burrows.
The first layer of the embark shelter will be trade, food, and capentry.
The second will be a general stockpile, to unload the wagon(s), and
the third will be for the stonedwarves.
	Laid out a general store for shelter: seven lines of food and sundries,
two for a hospital, four for defense.  Let the other wagons be collected,
as the miners dig out the water tunnel, small cistern, stonedwarves burrow,
and farm burrow, all stacked in our embark shelter.

Slate.  Hollowed three levels of shelter burrow.  Started building
workshops and producing items.  4 plots and kitchen, still, farmer’s;
carpenter’s; trade depot; jeweler’s, mason’s, mechanic’s; crafter’s;
wood furnace, smelter, and forge.  Rock mugs for trade.  A small
meeting hall and dining room by the outsiders, and a small dormitory
by the stonedwarves.  Top priority is cistern and well before winter.

Felsite.  Finished meeting hall and dining room.  Ran out of ordinary
rock, so mined a frame, found rough red zircon.  Told miner/mason
Eshtân Auraquakes to cut gems, and woodworker/carpenter Èrith
Shieldbelts to make charcoal and smelt ore.

Hematite summer.  Migrants to relieve Eshtân as mason and jeweler,
and Zasit as fisherdwarf and fish cleaner.  Set up a fishery by the river.

Malachite.  Mining galena hematite, and native copper.

Galena.  Rakust Pulleydriven seemed a competent swordsdwarf.
Returned Eshtân to masonry and stone detailing, to make a coffin.

Limestone.  Camel still disruptive.  Built six nest boxes for poultry.

Sandstone.  Finally cleared the path to the well.  Skeleton starting
to kill dogs, so I will lead a citizen’s-militia squad to kill it.


Diary of Ber Paintsqueezed, first-migrant expedition leader,
The Folded Banner.

253 Sandstone.  The fighting isn’t over, and the poultry are taking
the brunt of it.  Disgusting purple clouds of rot—let our refuse clutter
the green grass!  Found Mebzuth dead, no ghosts yet.  Rebuilding trade
depot, still, and farmer’s workshop.

Timber.  Èrith is melancholy.  Ïngiz is berserk.  Migrants: two soldiers
(which we dearly need), woodcrafter, and animal trainer.  Kulet will
command militia and squad of other military migrants, now only Sarvesh.
Need to establish barracks, probably at end of copper vein.
Kulet couldn’t handle the hostility around here.  No trade caravan.
Vabôk will also gather plants and brew.


Diary of Vabôk Flukecobalt, first-migrant expedition leader,
The Folded Banner.

253 Timber.  Rakust was the first to die, my husband rotting in front
of me; since then I revel in this chaos and disorder.  Edëm went
berserk and killed Ber with his pick.  The Mountainhome diplomat left
unhappy, no trade.  Edëm killed Ïngiz, so that’s sorted.  Ber killed
Kulet, and Edëm killed Sarvesh, so no need for barracks.  More miasma.
The merchants’ hammerdwarf Inod Doortrenches and the marksdwarf
Ùshrir ftook down vomiting and retching Edëm with gut shots.  Got a
still working, to drink as we die and rot.

Moonstone.  The merchants have been watching us fall apart, and are
leaving soon, as we’ve been unable to set up and staff a trade depot.
Partly my fault I guess, I just found the plans.  General orders to
gather plants, farm, brew, and cook, to keep us alive a while.
Ùshrir wil keep books and broker.  Èrith slipped away.

Opal.  The ghost appeared of the embark recruit Deler.  We should build a
tradecraft burrow and floodable approach, since shelter is too cluttered.
But for now we just grow food and drink and hold on until more come.
Mebzuth has also risen to haunt us.  All orders for farmer’s workshop.
Start preparing easy and fine meals.

Obsidian.  Meeting area, with people and animals gathered around,
makes it difficult to rebuild nearby buildings.

254 Granite.  The small dining room, covered in chicks, no longer a
meeting area.  Plan to wall in the pastures and remove upward slopes.
	28 migrants, including my daughter Iden Drinkboat!  Third wave:
miner, wood cutter (to be carpenter/wood burner), stoneworker (also
miner), blacksmith etc., jeweler, gem cutter (also miner/furnace
operator), 2 bone carver, clothier, 2 leather workers (1 mechanic/miner),
cook, 2 fishery workers, fish dissector, fisherdwarf, grower, 3 farmers,
2 brewers, lye maker, spinner, tanner, engineer, and two children.

Slate.  Minkot Galleydoors replaces Ùshrir Plankenjoy as record keeper.
Plenty of bone around; create butcher’s workshop; reuse craftsdwarf’s
workshop; plan trade burrow.  Build press and quern for miller, leather-
works and tanner’s workshop for leatherworker, all in top level of shelter.
	Should create a walled meeting hall/dining area exposed to outside.
Should create a bedroom burrow (levels of a 3x3 array of 3x3 bedrooms)
for those dwarves without workplace bedrooms.
	Dug out the depot level of the tradecraft burrow.  Planned wall
and drawbridge to isolate deramped pastures.  All dwarves busy.
Replaced the trade depot.

Felsite.  Convicted Ïgniz of the murder of Tun, Ïteb, and Mebzuth.
Convicted Ber of the murder of Kulet.  Should farm within walls above
ground, for variety, and because there are many seeds to be had here.
Tell the kitchen not to cook away the drinks distilled from aboveground
plants.

Hematite.  Elves from Aquaneinefa, "The Dabbling Fell", whined that
Ùshrir accidentally offered them the bin the gems were in, and refused
a profit of 300 on trade of 1510 of our gems.  More gems for the
humans and dwarves, then.  All they had that we actually needed were
bags, to hold seeds.  Broker got back to work.
	The blacksmith will burn wood.
	Digging a deep shaft, down fifty layers, broke into a cavern while
enlarging a marble take.  Plan a drawbridge and controlling lever to
isolate it; upper drawbridges ready as backup.
	Fourth wave of migrants!  The ranger, jack-of-all-trades, and
bone doctor will join the earlier-migrant wood cutter, blacksmiths,
and hunter in an inactive marksdwarf squad, the Diamond Vises.
Metalsmith, gem setter, fish cleaner, farmer, beekeeper, mechanic.

Malachite.  Constructing a wall around an outside farm, with an inside
connection to the rest of the fort.  Bone carvers can also burn wood.
Smith leather and copper helms and armor.  Make pig iron bars for
steel, since we found some flux.  Militia is sparring in barracks
slightly smaller than the chamber, to allow storage along the walls.
Dug a little tunnel under the river, to get to the other side.
Craft rock mugs for trade.  Unforbid various items, including seeds
for more planting, leathers so Stukos’ strange mood does not end
poorly, and corpses for bone crafts.  Still need bags to e.g. mill plants.
	Stukos created an artifact giant-bat leather cloak, “Parchdim the
Cross Naughtiness of Roaring”.  Need isolated storage for artifacts,
and other treasure, eventually behind a forbidden artifact door.
For now, turn the center of the mines into a room.

Galena.  Finished drawbridge by cavern, connected lever: we are now
isolated from the cavern.
	The ghost of Ïgniz battered unconscious a six-year-old child
(daughter of Cog and Minkot), and removed her upper left leg,
so it’s time to put him to rest.  Placed many coffins along the red walk,
and ordered slabs.  Dispersed Mebzuth, and Deler just after he rose.
She recuperates in the barracks, watching sparring practice.
	Planned a store for artifact furniture, (siege) ammo, finished goods,
weapons, trap components, and armor, with a lever in the barracks.
	Set out both the melee and the marksdwarf squad to scare off a
kobold thief.  Bolts, spear, mace, and wrestling mutilated the enemy,
and got back to work and military training.
	We have enough ore, and few enough trees, that it makes sense
to delve for magma, to power forges and smelters.  Set up a drawbridge
before we delve deeper than the cavern we found.
	Appointed Vucar the chief medical dwarf.  Other than a few
hungry dwarves, the only medical case is that of Ilral Channelstandards,
who lost the ability to stand, and requires a crutch.  Ilral was brought
to rest in the barracks bed by the cook Îton.

Limestone.  Smoothing a hospital burrow, digging a new small cistern.
Make more bolts for hunters, to supplement our meager supply
of meat, and so the marksdwarves have something to shoot with.
But out of copper bars.  Found honeybee colony, ordered beehive
for mead.  Trim bar production to (pig) iron/steel for armor and edged
weapons, silver for war hammer and mace, and copper for bolts. 
Should start a clothing industry to employ the clothier.

Sandstone.  Murdered Kulet haunts us.
	Datan has been found dead, but we’re not sure why, in the bed
next to Ilral in the barracks, just after stopped work needing coal.
It’s not good to lose a metalsmith.  Bëmbul is in the barracks on break.
Likot and Sibrek are individually drilling in combat practice.  Ilral is
resting.  Kulet Smithpeaked has a wide range of experience, lots of
kids, and is looking thirsty despite much alcohol around, so I think
I’ll post her alone to explore the cavern and find water.  Logem will
head a new marksdwarf squad, the Quick Gates.
	Fifth wave of migrants: miner, craftsdwarf, clothier, weaver,
2 farmers, beekeeper, presser, thresher, wood burner, siege
engineer, and 2 children.
	Minkot reports 34 chicks and 13 ducklings, eventually for meat,
at least those not kept to breed.  They are decimating the grass of
their pasture, so we'll have to rotate their pasture, possibly outside
the defensive wall.
	Secured the vampire Kulet in the cavern.  Gathering wood
(if we give her an axe) and spider webs, she can supply several
industries down in the cavern, passing goods through one of two
chambers: one at a time open to the workshops, and the other open to
the vampire.  Cave spider webs, as a source of silk, should keep busy
the weaver, spinner, and clothier.  TODO
	My daughter Iden created an artifact hematite grate,
“The Odors of Amusement”!  It will also go into artifact storage.
	Who’s idle and why?  Probably temporary, between jobs:
miner, hunter, militia captain.  Checked workshops for jeweler,
wood burner, mechanic; farmer, brewer, cook, thresher, butcher
and leatherworker.  Workshops needed for clothier, weaver,
spinner, and beekeeper.

Timber.  Digging textile burrow and exchange chambers at cavern.
	A single boulder blocks trade caravan from mountainhome.
Ordered it smoothed out of the way.  If no-one gets to that we could
open another entrance to the trade depot.  They decided to unload
anyway.  Sell gems and rock mugs.  Declare the trade depot a burrow
to get me and the broker there.  Set all miners to stone detailing to
smooth boulder preventing trade.  Finally traded, gave up 20% profit.
The mountainhome wants splints, quivers, bracelets, leather water
skins, thread, backpacks, toys, battle axes, amulets, handwear, and
footwear.

Moonstone.  From the metalsmith order silver maces and warhammers,
lead chains and sarcophagi, and copper bolts, mail shirts, and helms.
Finally ran out of barrels from our embark, so set the carpenter to
barrels and the craftsdwarf to rock pots.  Finally thought to let
haulers gather refuse from outside, to process skeletons into bone
bolts and helms, and shell helms.
	I have a granddaughter from Iden and Thob: Ïteb Savedtraded!
Such a lovely little jewel they baptized to Uzol of jewels.  Fath and Bëmbul
also had their first daughter, Domas Shadowsabre, dedicated to Kodor the
dominant lilac of light, the sun, and day.  Kivish and Deduk had their
first son, Ònul Channeledflicker, also of Uzol.  It’s baby season!

Opal.  I set up a burrow in the hospital for the mothers and babies to
go to when we spot a baby snatcher.  Appropriately enough, the chief
medical dwarf is smoothing the floor of the hospital-in-progress when
he’s not on duty.  I forgot to lift the civilian alert, which is why Ùshrir
and I haven’t left the depot until now.  Fath lye-maker died of infection,
which is exactly why we need a hospital with a dedicated staff, and a
plan for a soap industry.
	Convicted the vampire of murdering Datan.
	Maisma down in the dorm by the stonedwarves as Fath rotted.
With as many idle hands as there are around here, it’s sad no-one got
to her.  Hospital floor smooth, ready to set up.  Iden, Thob, and
little Ïteb get a room in the hospital, since she’s a suturer.

Obsidian.  Idle jeweler can mine, bone carver can butcher, brewer can
gather plants and farm.
	Hospital smoothed walls and floor, we can start to engrave the
walls to give the injured something to look at, ponder, and study as
they recover.
	After talking to Minkot, we should build another underground
farm below outside, almost-walled-off farm, and a craft level below
the trade depot.
	Ordered querns and beds for the new underground farm.
Set clothes-makers near cavern, and soap-makers below hospital
(rebember not many non-hospital levels with access to the well).
	Due to confusion the area below the hospital was set up to
make clothes, just like the chamber near the cavern.  Ordered a new
area dug above hospital (which is where it could be generally) for
soap-makers (remember to limit non-hospital levels with access
to its well).

Restricted marble for use as flux.  Should devote copper to (bismuth
if we had it) bronze.  Ordered smelter to produce steel, pig iron, iron;
bonze from ores and bars, brass; electrum from ores; silver and lead
from galena.  Forge silver war hammer, mace; {bronze crossbow, bolts,
spear, battle axe, mail shirt, helm, and pick}; [lead chain, sarcophagus].

255 Granite.  Should plan a smoothed and engraved burrow with meeting
halls of dining room, statue garden and zoo.  Since this will be a
common location for dwarves to gather, it should have its own water.
So, it could be below the hospital.  Or, grant chairs and tables to
bedrooms, but then there would be no parties.  To honor avuzuthar
[mine-first], mining out from walls of burrows, so fortress not so
kastar [block-square], instead more sazirkib [bridge-netted].
	Minkot just brought to my attention that Bim had a baby by
lye-maker Fath before he died, born just before the latest goblin
theif baby snatcher was dispatched.  Her name is Dastot Blotdoor,
devoted to Ad Loafcleared the Soapy House, of hospitality.  I hope
Bim finds hospitality as a single mother.
	Finished clearing soapmaker area above hospital, and planned
it out, built soapmaker’s shop and ashery.  Ordered leather armor and
helms from tanned hides.  Placed hive.
	Migrants: Also wood cutter, wax worker, fishery worker, fish
dissector, 2 farmers, milker, shearer, and a child.  Reassign broker
administration to Kûbuk Canyontomes?  No, no other appraiser.
	Fath is fey in the jeweler’s workshop screaming for plant cloth
(order loom to weave a cloth from pig tail or rope reed thread),
silk cloth (cave spider silk cloth), rough gems (has rose quartz), and
bones (not from roosters; try bull and yak bull).
	Digging out a level below the trade depot to create trade items:
carpenter’s workshop (splints), leatherworks (quivers, water skins,
backpack), craftsdwarf’s workshop (bracelets, toys, amulets), farmer’s
workshop (thread), a pile for copper battle axes, and a clothier’s
shop (handwear, footwear).  Each craft level should have 3 beds,
3 input 3x3 piles, 3 workshops, and 3 output piles (1x9 for each
trading civilization).
	Need to link and flood hospital cistern.  [Done badly.]
	Laid out boundaries of shelter burrow for emergencies,
including all its levels and levers.
	Should dig out a level below the farms entirely for prepared meals.
Or, create piles in all the bedroom areas to distribute them.
	Libash Fencelightnings became a legendary woodcutter!

Slate.  More migrants: animal dissector, armorer, 2 gem setters,
craftsdwarf, 3 farmers, beekeeper, lye maker, tanner, clerk, child.
Yet more migrants: bowyer, jeweler, butcher, lye maker, siege
engineer.  Should plan bowyer’s workshop as part of dedicated
outdoor-activity burrow near animals.  Include bowyer, carpenter,
kennel, leatherworker, butcher (outside, or with walled-off channel to
outside), tanner, farmer’s workshop to process plant and spin thread
from animals, and appropriate piles and bedrooms.  TODO
	Dig out the center of a frame to store metals near the charcoal-
fueled workshops.  Move ash to the metal bars, and build a kiln to
refine the gypsum powder.
	Aban and Datan have a baby girl!  Kulet Walledsandaled,
devoted to Ral of minerals.  That makes 85 dwarves in the village.
	Fath Lenstome created an artifact rose quartz cage,
“Fillriddled the Deep Summit”, with images of crescent moons.
Maybe we can put the vampire in it for ever once she outlives her
usefulness.
	Here’s a lesson learned: create a drawbridge against the
river, and create a drawbridge to tap each water tunnel, instead of
mining into the tunnel and hoping it falls down stairs fast enough.

Felsite.  I’ve screwed up just about everything.  First I mined into
the water tunnel, without being able to control the flow.  Then I had
the vampire in place to be drowned, and foolishly ordered her to mine
until she died, which made her pick up equipment, which made her go on
break.  Now she’s been seen as a vampire, I don’t know if we will be
able to get her back under control again.  Meanwhile walling up the
hospital, which is about to be flooded as high as the river, which is
above the highest level of the hospital burrow.  She returned to
station, so I walled her up behind microcline in the soon-to-be-
flooded hospital burrow.  She killed the miner Deduk, father of
young Ònul—her second very useful dwarf killed, and a father as well.
Going to keep her on station until there is water on the other side of
those block pillars.  If she tantrums and tearn them down when we
release her from duty, she will [not] drown herself.  Clearing every-
thing out of the hospital area.  The wall to seal it off is suspended
until it’s clear or the water rises.  TODO
	Lost Aban—what is going to happen to her baby, alone in the
cavern [with a broken skull], mother and father dead?  Mine gems
and collect webs from the cavern, weave cloth since we don’t have a
hospital to use the thread.  Set up a burrow outside the cavern.
	Elven caravan arrived.  Offer what few gems we have cut to
make amends.  While the cavern appears safe, mine all the gems,
so we have more to trade.  Use the empty exchange chamber to
cut gems, and make and encrust mechanisms.  Ùshrir won’t be able
to broker while he’s unconscious from the afteraffects of battle.
Appointed Litast Trustedbolted, clothier to be the broker.
Giving the elves 75 profit on trade of 300: 3 cut gems for seeds,
splints, and crutches.
	Finished the bridge to seal off the delve deeper than the cavern.
We have a hatch cover ready.  Said a miner should start a stair shaft.
	Store production metal bars in the top mine frame near the
shallow stonedwarves in the shelter burrow, since they are only
temporarily in that form, and look better sorted.  Replace metal bar
pile with ash pile, and build bowyer in place of ash pile. TODO

Hematite.  We could apply 2 hatch covers, since the water has not
risen too high.  But not on the current diagonals.  Wall up the corner
stairs by well.
	Actually found some water in the cavern.  Eshtân Cryptrubbed
was killed in the cavern by a troglodyte, so we need some more
defenses there.
	Ineth and Lorbam have a baby boy!  Mesthos Overtrumpet,
dedicated to Kodor the dominant lilac of light, the sun, and day.
	Vabôk and Mosus have a baby girl!  Unib Windyposts,
devoted to Litast of valor, war, and fortresses.
