nb embark done order

Reclaim to change dwarves since nobody was working other than miner.
Reclaim again to actually save embark profile.
The Folded Banner is the expectation of Mountainhome that they'll pack up too.
Auto loom dyed thread, use dyed cloth.
Don't cook dwarven wine, ale, beer, or rum.
Reserve 3 barrels for drink.
Designate mine and stairs for embark shelter, and general outlet pile.
Designate mine and stairs for water tunnel from river, and small cistern.
Designate chop down trees and gather plants.
Designate pen and training area for animals.
Designate a stairs shaft down to first cavern to scope metals.
Appoint novice recordkeeper to be the broker and medium-precision bookkeeper.
Unforbid first and second wagon to move stuff to farm and general piles.
Designate a chair as an office for the broker/bookkeeper.


nb 251 spring done order


nb doing once order


nb doing occasional order


nb doing ongoing order


nb todo order

stone blocks for drawbridges
stone tables (5) 
stone thrones (5)
stone grate for cistern
mechanisms

nest boxes for poultry
general stockpile (11x11 except Corpses, Refuse, Stone, Gems, and Wood) to unload wagon
kit out embark shelter
small cistern for embark shelter

Seal pasture area with walls and drawbridge, and remove up-ramps.
Reserve 9 barrels for drink.
Prepare hatches, drop stairs far down to find a good 4M and mine area in the shallows.
frame mine for stone
designate pen for animals
fence in and deslope animal pen
burrow: install blocks as drawbridge
burrow: install mechanisms as lever
cistern: install blocks as drawbridge
cistern: install mechanisms as lever
build stone blocks for drawbridges
build mechanisms for levers
build butchery
build fishery
hunt animals
designate trees to cut
build wood workshop, bedroom, to-storage and from-storage
build mason's workshop, bedroom, to-storage and from-storage
build 7 stone tables
build 7 stone chairs
build 7 wooden beds
dig first burrow
dig first cistern
install well in first cistern
use bucket and rope for well
designate a broker/appraiser
build office for appraiser to take stock
build a trading post
designate farm
plant farm
build barrels for stockpiles
build bins for stockpiles
designate storage for mason's 
wooddwarf burrow: with 4 3x3 bedrooms for woodcutter, carpenter, wood burner, and a second; 5 3x3 areas for wood, carpenter’s workshop, furniture, wood burner, and ash; and 4 1x9 areas for 2 more wood and 2 more furniture. 
farmer/hunter bedrooms and storage: 
, hunter, and farmer; and 5 3x3 wood storage, carpenter’s workshop, and furniture storage for woodcutter; 


