Diary of "Kulet Smithpeaked", accursed of Onget Gravelboulders.  TODO

254 Sandstone.  It seems they know I drained the valued metalsmith.
The militia commander posted me alone to the cavern, had a drawbridge
sealed behind me, and suspended my station, free from current duty,
but alone on my squad to order further.  They probably intend to use
me down here, as far as they can, until I die to a forgotten beast.
I’ve got nothing better to do, so I’ll play at their game, and be
productive until they forget and let me back in.
	Inventory my surroundings and affordances.  No hostiles:
no weapon.  With seeds I could farm.  Marble walls with many gems:
no pick.  Also no channelling for irrigation.  Giant cave spider webbing:
I need to build a loom.  How shall I build a loom, without an axe to
cut down a cavern tree, or a pick to mine stone?  How should I make an
axe or pick, without an anvil?  Imprisoned, I’m not likely to get a pick,
but if I play nice I may get an axe.  In the meantime I might gather,
and make thread and clothes, or let them process, which lessens their
dependency on my skills to make goods, and increases their own.
What is there to gather?  Giant cave spider webbing.  With an axe,
I could cut only tower-cap and fungiwood (I’m not very deep).

Timber.  I hear digging near the drawbridge.  They are probably
hollowing rooms for me to fill, the cowards.

Moonstone.  After a quiet period, they’re back at digging close to
the stairs.

Opal.  Exploring the cavern a bit.  Many different gems in the walls.
I really want a drink.

Obsidian.  My first company: a troll and troglodytes.

255 Granite.  The trogdolytes make bold to attack.  Nothing I can’t dodge.

Felsite.  They let me out thinking I would seal up a bridge and drown
myself on station.  When that did’t work out they thought they walled
me up and let me mine, and that was just the excuse I needed to go on
break and feed on a miner.  They got me back on station and walled me
up behind some microline, as the fools clear out the hospital, soap-
maker’s level, and clothier level.  Didn’t manage to grab a pick, alas.

Hematite.  They elected me mayor, despite my convictions, despite
me being outed as a vampire, and in prison for 401 days. Truly, they
deserve me as their leader.
