nb linux skype alternative desktop share ekiga gnu telephony google usa only chat talk voice jitsi linphone
Vaughan-Nichols, S.J.  20110519.  5 Skype alternatives for Linux users.
IT world: Unified communications.
http://www.itworld.com/unified-communications/166637/5-skype-alternatives-linux-users

The Linux VoIP clients also have some other things in common.
On the down side, none of them allow desktop sharing.

Ekiga: This program is perhaps the best known of the Linux VoIP
clients.  Formerly known as GnomeMeeting, it's an open source VoIP and
video conferencing application for GNOME.  Besides SIP, Ekiga also
supports the H.323 videoconferencing protocol.  With this protocol,
Ekiga supports Microsoft NetMeeting interoperability.  It does not,
however, support Microsoft's newer Windows Meeting Space replacement
for NetMeeting.  In my experience, Ekiga works quite well.
In particular I was also pleasantly surprised at how well it worked
with NetMeeting.  If it weren't for the overall value in the Google
Chat/Talk/Voice package, Ekiga would be my favorite Linux VoIP
program.  That said, if free software is a priority for you, then
Ekiga is the program for you.

GNU Telephony is a project that has just reached the 1.0 stage.
With the release of the GNU SIP Witch 1.0, a SIP server, this program
is much closer to being something that end users would want to use.
For now, though, GNU Telephony is better left for free software
developers rather than users.

Google Chat / Google Talk / Google Voice.  … Here's the truth of the
matter: If you have Google Chat, which is Google's IM service, and
Google Talk, which is its VoIP and video service, and Google Voice,
which is Google's private branch exchange (PBX) service, you end up
with the full range of VoIP and video services, including the ability
to call landline and mobile numbers.  The only downside is that there
isn't a client for this.  Instead, Linux and Mac users need to install
a Google Talk video and voice plug-in to their Web browsers.
Only Windows users get a client at this time.  On the plus side, you
can use it right from your Google or Gmail page and it works quite well.
To me, regardless of operating system, this is the real Skype
replacement.  That is, if you're in the U.S.  All too many of the
Google combination's features don't work outside the U.S.

Jitsi, formerly SIP Communicator, is perhaps the most full-featured of
the Linux VoIP clients.  It supports SIP, XMPP, and to one degree or
another, VoIP to AIM, Windows Live, Yahoo!, and others.  It also runs
on Windows and Mac and there's an Android port coming.  With all that
I can't give Jitsi my full approval.  In my experience, after running
it on Ubuntu, Mint and openSUSE, it never works that fast.  That might
be in part because it's a Java application.  It also doesn't work with
Ekiga.net due to some protocol problems.  It will work, however, with
other SIP networks such as Iptel and ippi.

Linphone is the one product that came out of the late Linspire Linux
that's still going.  While it's "only" a SIP- based softphone, it has
the advantage of working not only on Linux and Macs and Windows PCs
as well, but of coming in versions that work on Android, iPhone and
BlackBerry.  As such, it is, to the best of my knowledge, the single
open source VoIP client with the broadest architecture support.
In my experience, Linphone works OK, but doesn't knock my socks off.
Jitsi has more promise and Google has more real-world functionality.

If I were looking for a Skype replacement today, I'd have to go with
the Google package, but then I live in the U.S.  and I would really
like it if there was a single, easy-to-use and international Google
Talk/Voice combination.  Over the years, I've liked Ekiga, but of the
standalone clients I think Jitsi has the most potential to be a great
VoIP client.


nb motivate money subsist drive autonomy master purpose rsa animate video
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6XAPnuFjJc


nb doc
