nb columbia manifest destiny personify america progress west frontier spirit jgast painting 1872 rail telegraph amerind bison wolf light dark
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:American_progress.JPG

This painting shows "Manifest Destiny" (the religious belief that the
United States should expand from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean
in the name of God).  In 1872 artist John Gast painted a popular scene
of people moving west that captured the view of Americans at the time.
Called "Spirit of the Frontier" and widely distributed as an engraving
portrayed settlers moving west, guided and protected by a goddess-like
figure and aided by technology (railways, telegraphs), driving Native
Americans and bison into obscurity.  It is also important to note that
angel is bringing the "light" as witnessed on the eastern side of the
painting as she travels towards the "darkened" west.


nb columbia statue republic globe eagle laurel wreath lance ribbon dcfrench world exposition 1893 jackson park
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statue_of_the_Republic
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:2004-08-08_1580x2800_chicago_republic.jpg
http://www.explorechicago.org/city/en/things_see_do/attractions/park_district/statue_of_the_republic.html
http://www.hydepark.org/parks/jpac/jprepublic.htm

French recalled "and lo!  an American goddess stood forth,
with golden hair, clothed in shimmering draperies
and by night a halo of stars around her head."

The assembled sections were coated with gold leaf except for the head,
neck and arms, which were painted ivory.  She wore a diadem of electric lights.
The figure in classical drapery carried symbolic ornaments:
a laurel wreath on the head; a shield with eagle outstretched;
in her right hand, a globe with an eagle hovering over; in her left hand,
a lance crowned by a Phrygian cap—a sign of the French revolution.
The total intent was to express the republic of the United States and
its form of government.  "The Republic" was the focal element in the
Court of Honor, facing west over a broad lagoon toward the
Administration Building, flanked on the South by Agriculture and on
the North by Manufactures and Liberal Arts with the Peristyle and its
Quadiga on the East.  Lorado Taft, labeling "The Republic" "the crown
feature of the Fair" commented that "such a union of personality with
sculptural generalization is rare."

The Republic shows a woman with a classical breastplate and long
flowing robe, with arms outstretched above head—the right hand holding
a globe with an eagle perched or hovering atop, the other a staff.
Globe and eagle were the Fair's emblem, but their arrangement was
French's.  The original had the left hand holding a lance decorated
with laurel leaves and a Phrygian Cap representing the French
Revolution.  Perhaps because the mid/late 1910's was a time of
reaction and fear of communism, anarchism and the Bolsheviks, a staff
with a laurel wreath was used.  The statue has been given various
interpretations--some said it symbolized "both the republic of the
United States, a single united political entity, and our republican
form of government", others said it expressed the strength of the
nation after the Civil War and its role as a beacon for republican and
democratic aspirations.  Less likely, it would seem to this writer,
is that it stood for assimilation of immigrants—at least the 1893 original.

The original colossal 65 foot-tall version of Daniel Chester French’s
Statue of the Republic was one of the most iconic features of the
World’s Columbian Exposition of 1893.  Composed of gilded plaster,
the monumental female figure with outstretched arms stood at the
eastern end of the Court of Honor.  The Chicago Tribune wrote
“It impresses by its grand presence, its serene and noble face, and
its perfect harmony with its magnificent surroundings, by its
wonderful fitness.”  Historian Mary Lackritz Gray asserts that along
with another work exhibited at the fair, this monument placed sculptor
Daniel Chester French (1850–1931) in the forefront of American art
at the turn of the twentieth century.  French went on to produce the
figure of Lincoln for the Lincoln Memorial in Washington D.C.
The B.F. Ferguson Fund commissioned French to create this 24-foot
version of the Republic in 1918, to commemorate the twenty-fifth
anniversary of the fair and centennial of statehood for Illinois.
It was conserved and re-gilded in 1992, in time for the 100th
anniversary of the Exposition.

The 10-foot high pedestal was designed by Henry Bacon of New York
using pink Stony Creek granite "rubbed" to a sheen.  It features
classical festoons and fasces.

Inscriptions: "The Republic--to commemorate the World's Columbian
Exposition MDCCCXCIII", "The World's Columbian Exposition authorized
by act of Congress and generously participated in by the nations of
the Earth was held here in 1893 to celebrate the four hundredth
anniversary of the discovery of America.  On this site stood the
Administration Building".  The pedestal has a low bench around it and
sits on an octagonal raised terrace.


nb hail columbia national anthem usa 1798 1931 vice president enter march
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hail,_Columbia


nb democracy freedom liberty statue goddess spirit china tiananmen square 1989
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goddess_of_Democracy

It broke up the north-south axis of the Square, standing between the
Monument to the People's Heroes, and the Tiananmen Gate (which it
faced looking at its large photograph of Mao Zedong).  Whether the
students had intended it or not "dozens of television cameras expertly
framed the ironic, silent confrontation between Goddess and Chairman."

At this grim moment, what we need most is to remain calm and united in
a single purpose.  We need a powerful cementing force to strengthen
our resolve: That is the Goddess of Democracy.  Democracy… You are the
symbol of every student in the Square, of the hearts of millions of
people.  … Today, here in the People’s Square, the people’s Goddess
stands tall and announces to the whole world: A consciousness of
democracy has awakened among the Chinese people!  The new era has
begun!  … The statue of the Goddess of Democracy is made of plaster,
and of course cannot stand here forever.  But as the symbol of the
people’s hearts, she is divine and inviolate.  Let those who would
sully her beware: the people will not permit this!  … On the day when
real democracy and freedom come to China, we must erect another
Goddess of Democracy here in the Square, monumental, towering, and
permanent.  We have strong faith that that day will come at last.
We have still another hope: Chinese people, arise!  Erect the statue
of the Goddess of Democracy in your millions of hearts!  Long live the
people!  Long live freedom!  Long live democracy!


nb statue liberty enlighten world fbartholdi design style symbol columbia amerind princess libertas marianne lead people edelacroix freedom tcrawford
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statue_of_Liberty

Instead of the impression of violence in the Delacroix work, Bartholdi
wished to give the statue a peaceful appearance and chose a torch,
representing progress, for the figure to bear.

Delacroix's figure wears a pileus, and Bartholdi at first considered
placing one on his figure as well.  Instead, he used a diadem, or crown,
to top its head.  In so doing, he avoided a reference to Marianne,
who invariably wears a pileus.  The seven rays form a halo or aureole.
They evoke the sun, the seven seas, and the seven continents, and represent
another means, besides the torch, whereby Liberty enlightens the world.
Bartholdi's early models were all similar in concept: a female figure in
neoclassical style representing liberty, wearing a stola and pella (gown
and cloak, common in depictions of Roman goddesses) and holding a torch aloft.

The erected statue does rise over a broken chain, half-hidden by her robes
and difficult to see from the ground.  Bartholdi was initially uncertain of
what to place in Liberty's left hand; he settled on a tabula ansata,
a keystone-shaped tablet used to evoke the concept of law.
Though Bartholdi greatly admired the United States Constitution,
he chose to inscribe "JULY IV MDCCLXXVI" on the tablet,
thus associating the date of the country's Declaration of Independence
with the concept of liberty.


nb doc
