nb program language purpose interactive art code advance field study discipline maker respect acquire learn skill practice persist
Shaw, Z.  2010.  The hard way is easier; Advice from an old programmer.
Learn Python the hard way, 2ed.
http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/intro.html
http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/advice.html

Typing the code samples and getting them to run will help you learn
the names of the symbols, get familiar with typing them, and get you
reading the language.  … Without paying attention to the tiniest
details of your work, you will miss key elements of what you create. …
Your job is to compare what you have written to what's required,
and fix all the differences.  By doing so, you will train yourself to
notice mistakes, bugs, and other problems.  … The point of these
exercises is to train your hands, your brain, and your mind in how to
read, write, and see code.  If you copy-paste, you are cheating
yourself out of the effectiveness of the lessons.  … I know that to
get good at anything you have to practice every day, even if I suck
that day (which is often) or it's difficult.  … If you keep trying,
keep typing it in, trying to understand it and reading about it, you
will eventually get it.  … But, if you go through this whole book,
and you still do not understand how to code, at least you gave it a shot.
You can say you tried your best and a little more and it didn't work out,
but at least you tried.  You can be proud of that.

Do not get sucked into the religion surrounding programing languages as
that will only blind you to their true purpose of being your tool for
doing interesting things.  … Programming as an intellectual activity is
the only art form that allows you to create interactive art.  …
People who can code in the world of technology companies are a dime a
dozen and get no respect.  People who can code in biology, medicine,
government, sociology, physics, history, and mathematics are respected
and can do amazing things to advance those disciplines.  … The world
needs more weird people who know how things work and who love to figure
it all out.  … Being different is not a crime, and people who tell you
it is are just jealous that you have picked up a skill they [believe they]
never in their wildest dreams could acquire.


nb music wsaari yoiker sami sing chant techno ambient rinneradio essence signature person animal place
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wimme_Saari
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoik

Each joik is meant to reflect a person or place.  This does not mean
that it is a song about the person or place, but that the joiker is
attempting to transfer "the essence" of that person or place into song—
one joiks their friend, not about their friend.  … Joik is traditionally
chanted a cappella and often dedicated to a human being, an animal,
or a landscape as a personal signature.


nb bsd build script sh library configure premake ide project file
http://hypertriton.com/bsdbuild/
http://dev.hypertriton.com:8080/bsdbuild/trunk/

BSDBuild is a simple, self-contained and portable build system derived
from the traditional 4.4BSD share/mk files.  BSDBuild uses BSD-style
makefiles, but without BSD make extensions (it uses standard Bourne
script fragments instead), so the build system is portable to most
operating systems and make flavors.  Because BSDBuild is implemented
as a library, makefiles are edited directly and never need to be
"regenerated".
	BSDBuild can generate Bourne-type configure scripts.  The base
distribution currently includes over 90 built-in tests for detecting
and testing the compatibility of various software, and writing new
tests is easy.
	BSDBuild can also interface with different build systems.
Using the external Premake utility, if available on the host system,
BSDBuild can output the "project files" for various IDEs such as
CodeBlocks and Visual Studio automatically.


nb doc
