nb commander ec-perl open read file
/test/1/perl/read/guide


nb os cannot exec windows error 193 
You're trying to execute a file that is not a PE. Check the file type,
and input the file to its interpreter.


nb gtd accomplish focus choice energy automate get task done ritual
Schwartz, T.  20110524.  The only way to get important things done.
Harvard business review.
http://blogs.hbr.org/schwartz/2011/05/the-only-way-to-get-important.html

The counterintuitive secret to getting things done is to make them
more automatic, so they require less energy.  It turns out we each
have one reservoir of will and discipline, and it gets progressively
depleted by any act of conscious self-regulation.  … [use] rituals—
highly specific behaviors, done at precise times, so they eventually
become automatic and no longer require conscious will or discipline.


nb choice self control limit energy rbaumeister
ibid.

Acts of choice draw on the same limited resource used for self-control.
―Roy Baumeister


nb think task automate progress anwhitehead
ibid.

It is a profoundly erroneous truism that we should cultivate the habit
of thinking of what we are doing.  The precise opposite is the case.
Civilization advances by extending the number of operations we can
perform without thinking about them.―A.N. Whitehead, 1911


nb bedtime
ibid.

Abiding by a specific bedtime to ensure that I get 8 hours of sleep.
Nothing is more critical to the way I feel every day.  If I'm flying
somewhere and know I'll arrive too late to get my 8 hours, I make it a
priority to make up the hours I need on the plane.


nb work out
ibid.

Work out as soon as I wake up.  I've long since learned it has a huge impact
all day long on how I feel, even if I don't initially feel like doing it.


nb focus work task import
ibid.

Launching my work day by focusing first on whatever I've decided the
night before is the most important activity I can do that day.
Then taking a break after 90 minutes to refuel.  Today—which happens
to be a Sunday—this blog was my priority.  My break was playing tennis
for an hour.  During the week it might be just to breathe for five minutes,
or get something to eat.


nb note idea task forget recall
ibid.

Immediately writing down on a list any idea or task that occurs to me
over the course of the day.  Once it's on paper, it means I don't walk
around feeling preoccupied by it—or risk forgetting it.

[Of course, this means you need a system (eg kanban) for noting what
you need to get back to, or else that becomes a stressor.]


nb trigger behavior
ibid.

Asking myself the following question any time I feel triggered by
someone or something,: "What's the story I'm telling myself here and
how could I tell a more hopeful and empowering story about this same
set of facts?"


nb doc
