nb parse file extension commit multiple derived object transaction
http://groups.google.com/group/redo-list/browse_thread/thread/c2630e971f4185fa

trost@cloud.rain.com: target extensions.  I started using redo at work
today and have bumped into an annoyance: Some programs use the
target's extension to determine what to do.  For instance, ffmpeg uses
the target's extension to determine how to encode the output file.
Thankfully, ".tmp" is not used as a video format (yet!), but I'm
wondering if there might be a general solution to this problem in the
offing.  Put the "tmp" at the front of the temp file, perhaps?

jason.catena@gmail.com: (Speaking only for my variant, credo, and not
trying to convert anyone:) I thought something like this would happen
when I noticed that redo worked on a temporary, renamed version of the
output file, so instead my credo saves off the current version automatically,
and restores it if the do-script tells it to.  From the credo(1) man page:

          target.reold stores the previously-built content of target.
          If target.do returns the status revert then credo copies
          target to target.renew and restores target.reold to target.

This approach does leave the file to be created in a bad way if the
do-script never gets a chance to return the revert status to credo.
I understand that to avoid broken derived objects is a principle of redo,
but I figured that the overall system would be in an inconsistent state
as soon as you recompile with a partial failure of the code base which
hits only one of two files with coördinated changes.
	Because, for example, the arguments to a function changed, and
that object file compiled correctly, but another object file with a
corresponding call failed.  So now you can't build an executable,
because you followed the rule to commit a new derived file version to
its name based on only it compiling correctly.
	I might solve this in redo's approach by copying all the temporary
files to their real names only at the end of the entire redo run, as one
complete transaction, when you know that no targets failed.  Or, as you
say, by moving the tmp letters somewhere else in the filename…
if the compiler or other program doesn't use the rest of the name to
create other derived objects, which would also need their names de-tmp'd.


nb immerse manipulate wall computer interface minority report
Boutin, P. 20110422.  The struggle to spread the Minority Report interface:
Economics and user expectations are bigger hurdles than the technology.
Technology review: Business.
http://www.technologyreview.com/business/37450/?a=f


nb doc
