nb major technical plan change review board thesis defense team
Lopp, M. 20110629.  Everyone wants to grow: DNA.  Rands in repose:
Management.
http://www.randsinrepose.com/archives/2011/06/29/dna.html

The DNA³ team is the set of engineers who are not only the best
candidates to vet the big idea,⁴ but they have ability to talk about how
to make it better, can constructively criticize, and are distinctly
drama and politics-free.  … First, the rule for all attendees in a DNA is:
if you don’t contribute, you won’t be invited back.  DNA is not a
regular meeting; DNA is an active and healthy debate about a bet big
enough that we’re gathering our bright minds to make sure we don’t
fuck it up.  If you’re in the room, it’s because we believe you have
something to add and if you don’t, we’ll correct our misperception. …
Second, it needs to be culturally understood that if you don’t bring
your A game to DNA, the team is authorized to mentally kick the shit out
of you.  The end result of a healthy DNA will have members of the
receiving team sitting with their heads squarely planted on their desks,
whispering, “Oh shit, I can’t believe we didn’t think of that”.¹ …
DNA is a living, breathing example of a team of engineers who put the
value of design and technical excellence above all else.  They don’t
rule by mandate, they influence by being great at what they do. …
Our goal was to predict every single question DNA might ask and have
every answer in our back pocket.  Winning in DNA was silence. …
Pure managers are not considered for the team because DNA is about
cultivating technical leadership.  A DNA meeting is a staff meeting of
the influential engineers who don’t want direct reports, but they want
to lead.  If managers have anything to do with DNA, the meeting will
become about the managers and not the technical leaders.² …
It is the end result of a well-defined journey that any engineer who is
interested can embark upon.  At the prior gig, it was a combination of
tenure and experience, shipped products, and visible technical
contributions to the team.  Some measures will be subjective, but the
end result is that when someone arrives on DNA, everyone would agree,
“Yeah, they belong here…”  DNA recognizes team members who we want as
examples of folks who live and breath technical experience, who are
selfless, and who contribute exceptional value to the company.
 ¹ Management can ask the DNA team to validate significant changes in
product technical direction, reviewing these management plans for
technical feasibility, redundancies, needs, and opportunities.
The voice of the product, so management does not undermine it.
 ² For example, all the various change control boards.
 ³ z: DNA = Design 'n Architecture.  It is the technical conscience of
the group.  … mlancaster: Metaphorically, the core heritage or
founding structure of a company, product, or team.  For example, “Good
design” is in Apple’s DNA to what “Crush the enemy” is in Microsoft’s.
 ⁴ vats: In agile terminology DNA sounds very similar to a developer
huddle or its also known as dev huddle.  Whenever an engineer hits a
road block he can call for a dev huddle in which all the other
talented members of the team could provide him suggestions.
This meeting does not include non engineers.  Here the only rule thats
followed is openness of ideas, like @matt said even a junior member
can provide a suggestion which not even members have thought of.


nb bjohnson play alchemist alchemy 1610
Johnson, J.  2003 ed.  The alchemist.  Project Gutenberg.
http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/4081/pg4081.txt


nb focus say no opportunity cost press stock strategy deliver product customer sjobs open developer question 1997 invent reuse community core competent proprietary better compute network access backup gigabit ethernet reduce state strength weakness vertical integrate innovate development environment market app manage complex communicate contribute believe scratch itch email productive improv quantrix spreadsheet compete hardware destandard license clone price royalty volume improve general public practice reduce code raise abstract improve library journalist column print public relation profit pareto high order bit big win vision customer experience decide mistake fix learn maintain software stack execute
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3LEXae1j6EY

fbrooke: Eventually, if you add enough people, cost of communicating
overwhelms the new person’s contribution.

Stand on the shoulders of giants to deliver more and project work farther.

Don’t gate success of self on failure of entrenched system:
serve needs better.


nb bcrypt work factor slow crack password trial brute force attack
Hale, C.  20100131.  How to safely store a password.  codahale.com.
http://codahale.com/how-to-safely-store-a-password/
http://www.usenix.org/events/usenix99/provos.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt

This is not cryptographically significantly stronger than the standard
Blowfish key schedule, but the number of rekeying rounds is configurable;
the hashing process can therefore be made arbitrarily slow,
which helps deter brute-force attacks upon the hash or salt.
