nb search algorithm influence phrase history academic journal article cite
Naone, E. 20101029.  Where good ideas come from: New search
technologies can identify influential documents without relying on
links.  MIT technology review.
http://www.technologyreview.com/web/26656/?mod=related&a=f

The software analyzes the text in documents and then identifies the
most significant words and phrases in particular categories—ones that
appear often across many different documents.  It then teases out the
early appearances of those bits of language to pinpoint the documents
that most likely contained ideas that influenced those in other documents.
The algorithms can continue to run as items are added to a collection
of documents over time.

The researchers tested their algorithms on three large archives
containing thousands of journal articles.  The papers that the
software identified as being influential were also ones that had been
cited highly, they found.  But their method also provided
new insights.  In some cases, articles that weren't cited much were
identified as influential.  The researchers discovered that these were
often early discussions on an important subject.  Sometimes articles
that were highly cited were not identified as influential; in these
cases, the researchers believed that the articles were important
resources but did not present new ideas.


nb word antiquary
A curious Critick in old Coins, Stones and In∫criptions, in Worm-eaten
Records, and ancient Manu∫cripts; al∫o one that aﬀects and blindly
doats, on Relicks, Ruins, old Cuﬅoms Phra∫es and Fa∫hions.¹
 ¹ /nb/pub/dicts/newdictionaryoft00begeuoft.pdf


nb disburdenment aborgmann


nb word falcate
Pronunciation:/ˈfalkeɪt/.  adjective.  Botany & Zoology.  curved like
a sickle; hooked: the mandibles are falcate.  Origin: early 19th
century: from Latin falcatus, from falx, falc- 'sickle'.¹
 ¹ http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/falcate


nb word raise rays raze @fakeapstylebook
Black Manta raised his head, shot rays from his helmet and proclaimed
"Aquaman, I will raze your underwater kingdom!"


nb fabricate 3d print additive manufacture economist
20110210.  Print me a Stradivarius: How a new manufacturing technology
will change the world.  The economist: Technology leader.
http://www.economist.com/node/18114327?story_id=18114327

First you call up a blueprint on your computer screen and tinker with
its shape and colour where necessary.  Then you press print.
A machine nearby whirrs into life and builds up the object gradually,
either by depositing material from a nozzle, or by selectively
solidifying a thin layer of plastic or metal dust using tiny drops of
glue or a tightly focused beam.  Products are thus built up by
progressively adding material, one layer at a time: hence the
technology’s other name, additive manufacturing.  … At the moment the
process is possible only with certain materials (plastics, resins and
metals) and with a precision of around a tenth of a millimetre.
A basic 3D printer, also known as a fabricator or “fabber”, now costs
less than a laser printer did in 1985.  … It is already competitive
with plastic injection-moulding for runs of around 1,000 items….
It cuts costs by getting rid of production lines.  It reduces waste
enormously, requiring as little as one-tenth of the amount of
material.  It allows the creation of parts in shapes that conventional
techniques cannot achieve, resulting in new, much more efficient
designs in aircraft wings or heat exchangers, for example.  It enables
the production of a single item quickly and cheaply—and then another
one after the design has been refined.  … And because each item is
created individually, rather than from a single mould, each can be
made slightly differently at almost no extra cost.  … And just as
open-source programmers collaborate by sharing software code,
engineers are already starting to collaborate on open-source designs
for objects and hardware.  … When objects can be described in a
digital file, they become much easier to copy and distribute—
and, of course, to pirate.


nb fabricate 3d print additive manufacture economist
Filton.  20110210.  The printed world: Three-dimensional printing from
digital designs will transform manufacturing and allow more people to
start making things.  The economist: 3d printing.
http://www.economist.com/node/18114221

Using 3D printers as production tools has become known in industry as
“additive” manufacturing (as opposed to the old, “subtractive”
business of cutting, drilling and bashing metal).  The additive
process requires less raw material and, because software drives 3D
printers, each item can be made differently without costly retooling.
The printers can also produce ready-made objects that require less
assembly and things that traditional methods would struggle with—
such as the [linked-ring mesh] glove pictured above, made by Within
Technologies, a London company.  It can be printed in nylon, stainless
steel or titanium.  … No longer does a producer have to make thousands,
or hundreds of thousands, of items to recover his fixed costs.  …
The layers are defined by software that takes a series of digital
slices through a computer-aided design.  Descriptions of the slices
are then sent to the 3D printer to construct the respective layers.
They are then put together in a number of ways.  Powder can be spread
onto a tray and then solidified in the required pattern with a squirt
of a liquid binder or by sintering it with a laser or an electron beam.
Some machines deposit filaments of molten plastic.  However it
is achieved, after each layer is complete the build tray is lowered by
a fraction of a millimetre and the next layer is added. …
	Aircraft-makers have already replaced a lot of the metal in
the structure of planes with lightweight carbon-fibre composites.  But even
a small airliner still contains several tonnes of costly ærospace-grade
titanium.  These parts have usually been machined from solid billets,
which can result in 90% of the material being cut away.  This swarf is
no longer of any use for making aircraft.  To make the same part with
additive manufacturing, EADS starts with a titanium powder.
The firm’s 3D printers spread a layer about 20-30 microns
(0.02-0.03mm) thick onto a tray where it is fused by lasers or an
electron beam.  Any surplus powder can be reused.  Some objects may
need a little machining to finish, but they still require only 10% of
the raw material that would otherwise be needed.  Moreover, the
process uses less energy than a conventional factory.  It is sometimes
faster, too. … 
	Most metal and plastic parts are designed to be manufactured,
which means they can be clunky and contain material surplus to the
part’s function but necessary for making it.  … without manufacturing
constraints they can be better optimised for their purpose.
Compared with a machined part, the printed one is some 60% lighter but
still as sturdy.  … Some 3D systems allow the properties and internal
structure of the material being printed to be varied.  … Working at
such a fine level of internal detail allows the stiffness and
flexibility of an object to be determined at any point….
Other services allow individuals to upload their own designs and have
them printed.  … Shapeways prints more than 10,000 unique products every
month from materials that range from stainless steel to glass, plastics
and sandstone.  Customers include individuals and shop keepers, many
ordering jewellery, gifts and gadgets to sell in their stores.
EOS, a German supplier of laser-sintering 3D printers, says they are
already being used to make plastic and metal production parts by
carmakers, aerospace firms and consumer-products companies.
And by dentists: up to 450 dental crowns, each tailored for an
individual patient, can be manufactured in one go in a day by a single
machine, says EOS.  Some craft producers of crowns would do well to
manage a dozen a day.  …
	Established techniques are unlikely to be swept away, but it
is already clear that the factories of the future will have 3D
printers working alongside milling machines, presses, foundries and
plastic injection-moulding equipment, and taking on an increasing
amount of the work done by those machines.  [Morris Technologies,
based in Cincinnati] says many small and medium-sized components can
be turned from computer designs into production-quality metal parts in
hours or days, against days or weeks using traditional processes.
And the printers can build unattended, 24 hours a day.  … A high-speed
sintering system … uses inkjet print-heads to deposit infra-red-
absorbing ink on layers of polymer powder which are fused into solid
shapes with infra-red heating.  … The “digital production plant” firms
will no longer need so much capital tied up in tooling costs,
work-in-progress and raw materials, he says.  Moreover, the time to
take a digital design from concept to production will drop,
he¹ believes, by as much as 50-80%.  … Inkjet devices now perform a
multitude of printing roles, from books on demand to labels and
photographs, even though traditional presses still roll for large runs
of books, newspapers and so on.  … If a company needs a specialised part,
it may find it cheaper and quicker to have the part printed locally or
even to print its own than to order one from a supplier a long way
away.  This is more likely when rapid design changes are needed.
 ¹ Will Sillar of Legerwood, a British firm of consultants.


nb doc
