Stranger.  Minimize points from Tarot cards on your side or shared
with each other player.

"Fugitive.  x0 This card stack has no point sum.  XXII This card alone."
When played as part of a card stack, multiply the point sum of the
card stack by zero.  When played alone, on any side or share,
its point value is 22.  This means that it can’t be combined with any
other cards and keep its value of 22.

"Magus I. Play this card in place of another.  Replay that card."
You may replace a card in a stack, except Pillar and its stack,
or Sisyphus.
	A player may play Sun to replay Magus, and then use Magus to
replay Sun, et cetera, only so long as it makes a difference in the
card layout.

"Mother II.  Move a shared card to your side.  Play this in its place."
Replace a card in one of your shares.  You may replace a card in
a stack, except Pillar and its stack, or Sisyphus.

"Misery III. Move a card from another side to your side.  Play this
in its place." You may replace a card in a stack, except Pillar and
its stack, or Sisyphus.

"Father IIII.  Play this on your side.  Share a card from your side."
Move a card on your side into one of your shares.  You may remove a
card from a stack, except Pillar and its stack, or Sisyphus.

"Mercy -.  Play this over a just-played card.  Cancel its effects,
not its points."

"Constancy V.  Play this on your side.  Move a card to another side."
Move a card from your side into another side.  You may remove a
card from a stack, except Pillar and its stack, or Sisyphus.

"Lovers =VI.  Share this card between 2 players.  They share points of
their side cards."  Their side cards are not moved to the shared area,
so any card which moves away Lovers cancels the point sharing.

"Temperance VII.  Play this on a side.  Share a card stack from that
side with each other player."  Share only as many card stacks as there
are other players.  Do not share Pillar and its stack, or Sisyphus.
(This may separate Sisyphus from the remainder of his stack.)
Temperance may share, because it plays before stacks move.

"Fortitude 3xVIII.  Triple the point sum of this card stack."
Sum the values of all the cards in the stack, then multiply.
Fortitude adds at least 24 points to the card stack it joins.

"Stranger VIIII.  In hand: your turn next.  Each turn starts by moving
this card to share or side with fewest points." The player dealt this
card plays it as the first play of the game.  At the beginning of each turn,
the card moves to the share or side with fewest points.  If more than
one share or side has the same number of fewest points, then the
current player decides where to move the card.

"Fortune X. Play on your side.  Each player passes one card stack
left to another side."  Fortune may move, because it plays before
the stacks move.  Do not move Pillar and its stack, or Sisyphus.
(This may separate Sisyphus from the remainder of his stack.)

"Adjustment XI. Move highest-point card stack to side with fewest
points.  Play this card in its place."  Do not move Pillar and its stack,
or Sisyphus.  (This may separate Sisyphus from the remainder of
his stack.)  Adjustment is not the highest-point card stack, because
it does not play to a side until after the stack moves.

"Traitor -XII.  Negate the point sum of this card stack."
Multiply the point sum of the card stack by -1.

"Death XIII.  Remove a card from play.  Play this card in its place."
This card affects Pillar and Sisyphus, and other cards in their stacks.
Death removes the card entirely from play, and no cards bring it
back into play.

"Trebuchet XIIII.  Play in any share.  Move a card stack from one of
its sides to the other."  Play the Trebuchet to the share between the
source and destination sides.  Do not move Pillar and its stack,
or Sisyphus.  (This may separate Sisyphus from the remainder of
his stack.)

"Devil XV.  Move a card stack to each other side from a side.
Play this on the source side."  Move only as many card stacks as there
are other players.  Do not move Pillar and its stack, or Sisyphus.
(This may separate Sisyphus from the remainder of his stack.)
Devil does not move, because it does not play on the source side until
after the other stacks move.

"Severity -.  Play this over a just-played card.  Each player clockwise
replays the card."

"Pillar XVI.  This card stack does not move or replay."
Pillar and other cards in its stack may NOT be moved, passed,
picked up, replaced, replayed, et cetera from a stack containing
Pillar.  All such cards may die.

"Star 2xXVII.  Double the point sum of this card stack."
Sum the values of all the cards in the stack, then multiply.
Fortitude adds at least 34 points to the card stack it joins.

"Moon XVIII. Shuffle and deal a share’s cards to players’ hands.
Play this on that share."  Pick up all cards on the share, except
Pillar and its stack, or Sisyphus.  Play Moon after you distribute all
the other cards.

"Sun XVIIII. Shuffle and deal a side’s cards to players’ hands.
Play this on that side."  Pick up all cards on the side, except
Pillar and its stack, or Sisyphus.  Play Sun after you distribute all
the other cards.
	A player may play Sun to replay Magus, and then use Magus to
replay Sun, et cetera, only so long as it makes a difference in the
card layout.

"Judgement XX.  Play to a share.  The share’s players switch hand
and position."  The simplest way to do this is to have the two players
put face down their hand of cards on each side, and get up and
sit in each other’s seats.

"Sisyphus XXI.  Replay all cards from your side.  Play this card on
your side.  It does not move or replay." Play Sisyphus after you
replay all the other cards, so none of the replayed cards are played
on Sisyphus.  While the cards are replayed, the Sisyphus card is
effectively hidden.
	Other cards may be moved or replayed from a stack containing
Sisyphus.

Cards grouped by function.  Fugitive, Lovers, Fortitude, Traitor, and
Star change point sums.  Misery, Magus, Mother, Father, Mercy,
Constancy, Stranger, Death, and Severity (re)move, replay, or unplay
one card.  Moon, Sun, and Sisyphus distribute or replay card stacks.
Temperance, Fortune, Adjustment, Trebuchet, Devil, and Pillar (don’t)
move card stacks.  Judgement changes player sides.
