nb pile list
ammo: 100-bins, non-siege bolts.

animal: caged animals, empty cages, animal traps.

armor: 10-bins, armor.

bar/block 1: 10-bins, metal bars, stone blocks, glass blocks.

bar/block 2: 10-bins, ash, potash, soap, charcoal, coke.

cloth: 10-bins, woven cloth, thread.

coins: 3000-bins [6 stacks of 500], minted coins .

corpses (sealed): dead dwarves and pets without burial.

finished goods: 25-bins, crafts, clothes, leather goods, jugs.

food: 10-barrels, food, lye, giant desert scorpion venom, dye (bag),
liquid fire, raw fish, fish meat, drink (barrel), seed (bag).

prepared food: no barrels in food stockpile.

unprepared fish: only unprepared fish in food stockpile

seeds: only seeds (bags in 1–2 food barrels) and potash (3–4 bar/
block bins) in stockpiles next to farm.

meat: only meat in food stockpile.

plant: only plants in food stockpile.

furniture storage: carpentry, masonry, mechanisms, furniture, sand bags

carpentry: barrels and bins only in a furniture stockpile.

stonework: masonry and mechanisms only in a furniture stockpile.

gem: 10-bins, gem, raw glass

leather: 10-item bins, leather.

refuse: rotting garbage, damaged items, bones, skulls, shells, teeth,
horns/hooves.  Outside, or sealed with airlock.  Bins for clothing (if
allowed).

stone: stone, ore.

weapons: 10-bins, weapons, picks, trap components.

wood: cut trees.


nb collocate
(wood) carpenter's workshop (carpentry)

(stone) mason’s workshop, mechanic's workshop (bar/block 1, stonework)

 (stone) siege workshop catapult

(wood) wood furnace (bar/block 2) ashery, soap maker's workshop (bar/block 2)

fishing area (unprepared fish) fishery (meat)

fishery, butcher's shop, farmer's workshop (food, meat, refuse) meat kitchen (food, prepared food)

(seeds) farm (food, plant) quern/millstone [bags], screw press, plant kitchen, still, farmer's workshop (food, prepared food)
Only farmers harvest.  Disable last season of each plant to avoid
losing seeds.

farmer's workshop (cloth) tanner's shop, loom (leather, cloth) clothier's shop, leather works (furniture, cloth, leather, wood, stone, finished goods) craftsdwarf's workshop (finished goods) trade depot

[put farm (near surface) and trade (behind drawbridge) areas next to each other for farmer's workshop (threads) and screw press (jugs)]

(wood) wood furnace (charcoal/coke/coal only, ore) smelter, forge, kiln, glass furnace (weapons, armor, furniture, siege ammo, ammo, animal, bar/block 1, bar/block 2)
[wood furnace in dining room links outside (uses wood), farm (uses food,
provides ash for ashery to make potash), high-temp production (charcoal),
and soap production (ash)]


nb custom stockpile usage
http://df.magmawiki.com/index.php/Stockpiles#Uses_for_Custom_Stockpiles


nb workshop tier
Tier 1 Workshops
b :
Uses Tier 0 materials: Bone, Wood
Produces Tier 1 Weapon:Crossbow
c Carpenter’s workshop: Uses wood from trees to produce various goods.
Uses Tier 0 materials: Wood
Produces Tier 1 materials:
Armor: Buckler, Shield
Weapons: Training Axes, Training Swords, Training Spears
Containers: Barrel, Bin, Bucket, Casket
Building Materials: Block, Grate, Pipe section
Furniture: Bed, Chair, Table, Cabinet, Chest, Armor stand, Weapon rack
Furniture: Door, Floodgate, Hatch cover
Trap Components: Cage, Enormous corkscrew, Menacing spike, Spiked ball
Finished Goods: Crutch, Splint
Tools: Animal trap
j Jeweler’s workshop:
Uses Tier 0 Item: Rough gem
Uses Tier 1 Item: Cut gem
Produces Tier 1 Items: Cut gem, Encrusted objects
m Mason’s workshop:
Uses Tier 0 Item: Stone
Produces Tier 1 Items: Armor stand, Block, Throne, Coffin, Door, Floodgate, Hatch cover, Grate, Cabinet, Coffer, Statue, Table, Weapon rack, Quern, Millstone, Slab
u Butcher’s shop:
Uses Tier 0 Items: Tame animals, Corpses of untamed non-sentient animals
Produces Tier 1 Items: Skin, Fat, Meat, Bone, Prepared organs, Skull, Scale, Hoof, Ivory, Tooth
t Mechanic’s workshop:
Uses Tier 0-1 Items: Stone, Table, Rope
Produces Tier 1 Item: Mechanism
Produces Tier 3 Item: Traction bench
w Farmer’s workshop:
Uses Tier 0 Items: crop, Animal
Uses Tier 1 Items: Bags, barrels, vial, milk
Produces Tier 1 Items: Pig tail or Rope reed thread, Quarry bush leaves, Dwarven syrup, Plant extracts, Milk, Cheese
h Fishery:
Uses Tier 0 Items: Raw fish
Produces Tier 1 Items: Fish meat, Shells, Captured live fish
[edit]Tier 2 Workshops
n Tanner’s_shop:Verify
Uses Tier 0 Item: Hide
Produces Tier 1 Item: Leather
o Loom:Verify
Uses: Adamantine strands, Cave spider silk thread, Giant cave spider silk thread, Phantom spider silk thread, Pig tail thread, Rope reed thread
Produces: ClothVerify
f Metalsmith’s forge:
Uses: Metal bars
Produces: Armor, Weapon, Chain, Crafts, Furniture
d Dyer’s_shop:Verify
Uses: Dye, Thread, Cloth
Produces: Dyed Thread, Dyed Cloth
l Still:Verify
Uses Tier 0 Item: Brewable Plant
Uses Tier 1 Item: Barrel
y Ashery:Verify
Uses Tier 1 Items: Ash, Lye
Produces Tier 2 Items: Lye, Potash
[edit]Tier 3 Workshops
e Leather_works:Verify
Uses: Leather
Produces: Leather Clothing, Leather Armor, Leather Shield, Leather Quiver, Leather Bag, Leather Backpack, Leather Waterskin, Leather Images (decoration)
k Clothier’s shop:Verify
Uses: Cloth
Produces: Backpack, Bag, Clothing, Quiver, Rope
[edit]Tier 4 Workshops
q Quern:Verify
Uses Tier 0 Items: Blade weed, Cave wheat, Dimple cup, Hide root, Longland grass, Sliver barb, Sweet pod, Whip vine
Uses Tier 3 Item: bag
Produces: Dwarven wheat flour,Dwarven sugar,Longland flour,Whip vine flour,Dimple dye,Emerald dye,Redroot dye,Sliver dye
M (Shift+m) Millstone:Verify
Requires: Mechanical Power Source (Water wheel or Windmill), and a Millstone (Constructed at Mason’s workshop)
Uses Tier 0 Items: Blade weed, Cave wheat, Dimple cup, Hide root, Longland grass, Sliver barb, Sweet pod, Whip vine
Uses Tier 3 Item: bag
Produces: Emerald dye, Dwarven wheat flour, Dimple dye, Redroot dye, Longland flour, Sliver dye, Dwarven sugar, Whip vine flour
[edit]Uncategorized Workshops
s Siege workshop:Verify
S (Shift+s) Soap maker’s workshop:Verify
p Screw press:Verify
z Kitchen:Verify
Uses: Alcohol, Fish, Food, Meat, Plants, Cheese, Dwarven sugar, Dwarven syrup, Flour, Milk, Prepared organs, Seeds, Fat, Tallow
Produces: Prepared meals, Tallow
r Craftsdwarf’s workshop:Verify
Uses: Stone, Wood, Bone, Shell, Ivory, Tooth, Horn, Pearl, Cloth, Leather
Produces: Various Trade Items


nb first year farm plots
4 1x7 strips use 2 potash each, leave room in a 10x10 area for 6 workshops, and 15 stockpiles (plant, seed/potash)

spring	plump helmets
summer	pig tails
autumn	pig tails
winter	plump helmets

spring	dimple cups
summer	cave wheat
autumn	cave wheat
winter	dimple cups

spring	sweet pod
summer	sweet pod
autumn	plump helmets
winter	plump helmets

spring	quarry bush
summer	quarry bush
autumn	quarry bush
winter	dimple cups


nb embark point milk type barrel wood
An excellent strategy at embark is to take a minimum of 1 of each kind
of milk.  Milk costs only 1 point at embark, and comes with a seperate
barrel for each type, which means you can start with more food and can
be more efficient with wood supplies.
