nb boldcudgels embark labor
Kûbuk: jeweler, woodcrafter, stonecrafter, and bonecrafter.
Cut and set gems at jeweler’s workshop.  Craft wood, stone, and bone,
including wood bolts, at craftsdwarf’s workshop.

Stukos, miner.  Mine ground.

Obok: woodcutter, brewer, cook, grower, herbalist, operator, potash.
Cut wood in forest, brew at still, cook in kitchen, farm at plot,
gather plants in forest, operate smelter/kiln and wood furnace,
make potash (fertilize) and lye (soap) at ashery.

Mosus: carpenter, bowyer.  Carpenter’s workshop.  Crossbows in
bowyer’s workshop.

Besmar: stoneworker.  Engrave and mason at mason’s workshop.
Mechanisms at mechanic’s workshop.  Design buildings.  Mine.

Kib: fish cleaner, butcher, tanner, weaver, clothier, leatherworker.
Clean fish at fishery.  Butcher animals at butcher’s shop.  Tan hides
at tanner’s shop.  Make leather at leather works.

Shem: fisherdwarf.  Fish.

Bim: craft leather, wood, stone, bone, glass, clothes, strands,
pottery, glaze, wax.

Sibrek O.: burn wood at wood furnace, mine ground.

Sibrek L.: craft stone, make soap.

Nomal: swim.

Ast, militia commander, archer squad leader: marksdwarf, armor,
archer, dodger, spinner, dissect animals.

Rîsen, broker, metal squad leader: hammerdwarf, shield, armor,
fighter, dodger.

Meng, wood crafter.

Avuz, carpenter.

Goden, stoneworker and engraver and mechanic, civilian squad leader.
Armor, fighter, striker, dodger.  Clothier.

Atír, glassmaker.


nb boldcudgels first year military equipment
bowyer: build 7 crossbows.
woodcrafter: 7 [25] wood bolts.


nb boldcudgels first year plan
butcher: butcher designated tame animals, dead untamed animals
carpenter: build barrels
carpenter: build bins
carpenter: build buckets
carpenter: build carpenter’s workshop
first year bedroom
first year cistern
first year dining room
first year farm plots
first year trade depot
fisherdwarf: designate fishing area
herbalist: designate gather plants
jeweler: build jeweler’s workshop
jeweler: cut gems
mechanic: build mechanic’s workshop
miner: test bore 20 levels
stoneworker: build butcher’s shop outside
stoneworker: build mason’s workshop
woodcutter: designate cut trees
tanner: build tanner's shop
leatherworker: build leather works


nb boldcudgels first year trade depot
stoneworker: build trade depot
stoneworker: build craftsdwarf’s workshop
craftsdwarf (jeweler): craft wood
craftsdwarf (jeweler): : craft stone
stoneworker: designate 5x5 finished-goods pile
miner: 10x10 cave with 3-wide access, big enough for 5x5 trade depot
stoneworker: build a drawbridge to seal trade depot


nb boldcudgels first year bedroom
3x3 areas of a level
carpenter: build 7 beds
carpenter: build 1 private office chair
build 1 private dining room chair
designate 7 3x3 bedrooms
designate 1 private office for expedition leader
designate 1 private dining room for expedition leader
hauler: pile stone close to craftsdwarf
hauler: pile wood close to craftsdwarf
stoneworker: build 7 coffers
stoneworker: build 7 cabinets


nb boldcudgels first year dining room
carpenter: build 7 dining-room chairs
build 7 dining-room tables
designate 7x7 dining room and meeting hall from central table
build wood furnace
pile food
stoneworker: build ashery
stoneworker: build still
stoneworker: build kitchen
stoneworker: build fishery


nb boldcudgels murky pool size level
level 141
size 34

drain to level 131 or 121


nb boldcudgels first year cistern
miner: size 30
hatch cover at pool connected to mechanism in control room
hatch cover in control room
stoneworker: build wall grate before stairs up to pool
mechanic: build mechanisms


nb boldcudgels wagon
level 149
34


nb boldcudgels level plan
level 1: trade, farm, dining/meeting
stone/mech, high-temp
bedroom, soap/hospital (well)

reservoir


nb boldcudgels ore
cassiterite
kimberlite


nb boldcudgels gems water grid
rose quartz
red spinel
peridot
claro opal


nb boldcudgels human export
208%	plants
194%	splints
182%	thread
178%	goblets
170%	shields/bucklers
169%	battle axes
168%	fish
164%	large gems
146%	bracelets
118%	quivers


nb boldcudgels idle
Asmel, woodworker: 
Ast T., beekeeper: 
Ast U., animal dissector: 
Atír B., glassmaker: 

Atír R., tanner: 

Degël: MLF.

Dastot, dyer, wood cutter, carpenter, bowyer, lye maker:
build bowyer’s workshop.

Fikod Zo., carpenter: 

Goden S., milker, metal crafter: leave to growing, to not waste metal
in crafts.

Inod, trapper: 

Meng K., woodcrafter: no wood crafts.

Rakust: whatever.

Sarvesh, cook, weaponsmith, glazer: build metal workshop to make
weapons.

Shorast, gem setter: ramp up cutting and encrusting.

Stukos, miner: mine some ground.

Tholtig, milker, gem setter, strand extractor, tanner: build jewelry
workshop, or ramp up cutting and encrusting.

Tosid, metalcrafter: 


nb boldcudgels forgotten beast oriole
The Forgotten Beast Ágen has come!  A great eyeless oriole.  It has a
pair of squat antennæ and it squirms and fidgets.  Beware its fire!
