nb matchedclasps export
|sort -nr

dwarves
192	thread
189	leather waterskins
172	goblets
160	large gems
159	maces
157	quivers
155	shields/bucklers
152	toys
142	earrings
126	footwear
112	rings


nb matchedclasps dwarf bed original seven
these guys get the first 7 beds
zon unibathel
nil tomusathel
cog thabumasmel
bim ingtakònul
zaneg gusilmesir
cerol sibrekvunom
ustuth olinerar

the rest get dorms until I build a bedroom for them


nb dwarf lullaby delve work fight drink song
Delve, delve, delve, delve
Delve the mountain deep

Work, work, work, work
Work the ore in heaps

Fight, fight, fight, fight
Fight your home to keep

Drink, drink, drink, drink
Drink the dwarves to sleep


nb analyze efficient farm
http://www.bay12forums.com/smf/index.php?PHPSESSID=d49fe627302abec1ee1edc6ca25cff05&topic=87721.0


nb _todo matchedclasps diary military saferoom burrow plan
Designate military-144 and saferoom-144 burrows.  Build barracks from
armor or weapon stand next to the kennel in the military burrow.
Assign squad to barracks.¹
 ¹ Squad should not need to sleep, they have their own rooms—
which won’t be available during a lockdown situation.  But it's their
job to confront the situation, so they'll either be dead, or the beds
will be available.

Find magma from the deep delve.  Dig out a workspace just above the
magma, a workspace level four² levels above the workspace,³ and a
bedroom level above the workspace.  Channel down one level from lowest
workspace to magma for the top middle square of the magma smelter.¹
 ¹ The other magma-driven workshops have different blocked squares,
so channel out a unique spot for each one.  Set up 4 of each (smelter
and forge).
 ² Put two levels of water-works, to supply a hospital and saferoom,
between the workspace level and the bedrooms.  The other two levels
are for draining it, or another murky pool, into a cistern or into the
magma for an obsidian farm.
 ³ And connected to it by stairs at all four corners.


nb magma smelter kiln glass furnace blocked-tile map
X#X
XXX
XXX


nb magma forge blocked-tile map
XXX
#X#
XXX


nb magma forge labor item
Weaponsmithing: weapons, trap components, bolts, and ballista
arrowheads.  Armoring (armorer): armor.  Metalcrafting: chains, and
everything in the "Other Objects" category (crafts, coins, goblets,
studding, etc.), except anvils.  Blacksmithing: anvils, blocks, and
all furniture except chains.  Trapping: animal traps.  Mechanics:
mechanisms.
