nb armor production order helmet shield breastplate greaves boots gauntlets
http://www.bay12forums.com/smf/index.php?topic=99252.0

Rude: I get everyone a helmet ASAP.  Then shields, breastplates,
greaves, boots, gauntlets.  In that order.  Reason for helmets is in
case someone "gives in to pain." If any peasant gob walks up to him
with a wooden stick or a sock, then every hit goes directly to the head.
Shields are wonderful for saving your dwarfs, but by this point most
have wood already, I just upgrade to copper or whatever is available.
Greaves and boots, because I would rather have dwarfs missing a hand
than dwarfs moving VERY slow on crutches until they get to legendary
crutch walker (which, btw, isn't bad since it contributes to attributes).
Then gauntlets just to finish out the suit.


nb diary emallikot 251
Outpost Emallikot, Hematite 251, Reg Voiceguild

Our first immigrant, Besmar Uzollolok, is a skilled diagnostician,
a novice at farming, and has a few fighting skills.  I told her she
could be of use here in triage, farming when there’s no casualties,
and regularly training other hospital support staff in combat.
I appointed her Chief medical dwarf Oiledgranite, and told her she
would lead a reserve military squad.  Her Culmination of Glazes would
not be sent into battle, and would wear no uniform: only the starting
seven, the Gilded Messiahs, wear armor while inactive.  They would
train and spar two at a time in the barracks of the first platoon,
with wooden shield, spear, sword, and axe, like every other 7-dwarf
squad in the whole-Sensedinks militia.

Another mason and stonecrafter arrived, Limul Craftsdrink, whom I
immediately set to work.  At first glance the only other migrant
seemed to be just a bloody peasant, Aban Roadmirrored.  She told me
she could teach and lead, so I set her to captain the second combat
squad Mechanical Furnaces.  (She can come up with a good squad name,
at least.) She had nothing better to do, and wouldn’t be much of an
industry loss if she fell in combat.

Malachite 251

Huzzah!  We have a still, and some of the farm plots have orders and
seeds being planted.  Some donkey-tripe biscuits rotted in the
kitchen, so we’re underdwarfed for our current production.
All around are things undone, and what bloody peasant said we needed
charcoal yet, when we haven’t even dug out space in plat 134 for the
smelters?

Galena 251

Finished the keep cellar, where we will store prepared food, drink,
and a cache of usable metal armor and melee weapons.  If things get
bad enough that the trapped keep must mount its own defense, they’ll
need to wear something that will take a beating, and wield something
that will hurt the invaders.  At that point I’ll also allow the hospital
staff to don armor, but I’m not likely to be alive then anyway.

Finished the dining room, and asked the engraver, Avuz Adildolil, to
smooth the floors and walls.  When he’s done with that we’ll open up
fortifications in outer wall, to let in the waterfall’s mist—and dragonfire,
if we live long enough.  Unfortunately the outer hospital
wall is clay, so we can only clean off the patients with the well.
I’ll have to send a note back to the Mountainhome for other
expeditions to better place their whole keeps in stone.

Also finally set up the mechanic’s workshop.  I’ll leave it to Avuz to
decide which to work on, until we get another engraver.  We’re not
really in a hurry for either quite yet.  We burrowed out a gated
passage behind the bottom of the waterfall for our dining-room and
hospital wells.  And a water-trap false entrance can wait until we
attract some attention.  I'll wait to ask Walllock to engrave, though,
that takes time, or better skill than he has now.

Planted wild strawberries outside, since we have seeds.  We’re out of
alcohol, and even though we plant cave wheat half the year and plump
helmets the other half, we’ll be limping along until the first caravan.
We have somewhat like 100 goblets, so if we can last to the caravan we
should be able to buy all their alcohol.  I mostly blame myself,
for occupying them with things other than growing and distillery.
Maybe starting the sparring immediately wasn’t a good idea.  In any
event, if people start complaining, we’ll change the current work
distribution.

Farmer’s workshop ready.  Told them to go off and do everything they
do.  Also finally got the gemcutter out of the sunlight, working on
prase opal and citrine, near the mason’s stone furniture stockpile,
and another for just about any furniture the dwarf cares to encrust.
No sand bags for these furniture piles, or the mechanism pile: they
belong nearer to the glass furnace—if we don’t run dry first.

Limestone 251

Not limestone, but chalk, will comprise the 53-urist wall around the
pasture and outer farm and refuse.  I'd rather it be some stone not so
valuable to steel production, but we haven’t delved deep yet, it’s
close, and it gets it out of the way.  I shouldn’t complain too much:
the confluence of rivers, falls, and cutouts left a 22x60+5x60-urist
area (you do all the math, I’m bad with numbers) isolated with only
that wall, and about as many ramps removed.

Hid an empty refuse pile behind a forbidden door of the keep.  If it
comes under attack, we’ll be glad of an empty place to hide our dead.

Excellent, Besmar has taken it upon herself to brew.  The keep cellar
has one barrel, so that will make two.

We have tetrahedrite just lying around, and charcoal, and trees to
make more charcoal, so if we weren’t so chronically short of
dwarfpower, we could start up the metal industry.  Instead we’re
making bedroom and dining room furniture, and at a bloody slow rate.
Only the carpentry is coming out at a good clip.  Well, the mugs too,
which we will need to trade for some essentials this year.

Are there any additional stockpiles needed to take the clutter from
workshops?  From the surface down...  The fishery has three turtle
shells, which can go to the bone/horn/hoof/shell pile by the bone
carver below it...  One of the (three—need to remove one to make room
for a kennel) stone crafters (using chalk—twitch) by the trade depot
is very slightly cluttered, so maybe we’re low on unused bins.
We have seven: I see four next to the trade depot, one holding cut
gems, and two holding charcoal.  So yeah, the first thing Rakust will
make when he wakes up and finishes his month of military training is a
bloody bin...  None of the other workshops is close.

Apparently Nomal the fish cleaner has been adopted by two cats.
No surprise there.  Besmar must have a decent bedside manner,
because a cat adopted her too.  Maybe it’s the time she spends
around food and vermin on on the farm.

We need a broker, since the caravan from the Mountainhome will come
soon to take these brief notes, and supply us for the winter.  Who’s
dispensible enough to drop what they are doing at a moment's notice?
Let’s see whether we get any dwaves that can judge intent or appraise,
before the caravan.

Up to 7 drinks before we ran out of distillable plants.  This should
tide us through to the caravan, at least.

[posted]


nb diary emallikot 251
Outpost Emallikot, Sandstone 251, Reg Voiceguild

Militia commander Nomal is going to put Stinthäd's balls in stockades
(they’re lovers), first Axedwarf or no, if we don’t figure out why he
won’t follow the orders he’s been given.  He’s just hanging out in the
dining room, not going to the barracks.  It's possible he doesn’t have
a training weapon, so we’ll have Rakust to make another training axe,
with a shield, after the bin.  Avuz Walllock doesn’t have the same
problem, so maybe Stinthäd just wouldn’t let go of his pick unless
it’s for an axe.  A copper battle axe was sitting below him by the
food, so I’m not at all sure what he was on about.

Building a well in the dining room since there was some grumbling.
When we get some more chalk blocks we’ll build another, as well as a
few drawbridges to secure the outpost.

The wall will also serve to keep away from the livestock some wolves
we’ve seen sniffing about.

Excellent, some fresh blood—er, new visitors to our underdwarfed
outpost.  A wood burner, gem setter, and clothier, Etur Pulleyfaith.
She’s also a good ambusher, so maybe we can set her to hunting.
A wax worker, thresher, siege engineer, potash maker (really?) and dyer,
Atîs Beachspears.  In the short term she can process some plants.
They also brought some young animals: a baby alpaca, a yak calf, and a
horse foal.  Not sure why, since that’s a lot of fur and neither know
how to shear.  They can visit them in the pasture, with the cow, water
buffalo calf, and horse foal the first three migrants brought.
Assigned them both to the Mechanical Furnaces.

Timber 251

Had to tell the kitchen and still to get back to work, we have some
food and drink to produce for our new fellows.

Stinthäd is training again as our first Axedwarf, and fortunately not
our only miner.  Seems to be following orders better this time, but
then again he’s paired with our second axedwarf, Nomal, this month,
and they both seem to be trying to outdo each other in individual
combat drills.  If these two don’t produce our first baby I’ll be
surprised.  Now they’re sparring, which no doubt acquaints them with
each other’s moves, while the other two recruits are learning how to
dodge just staying out of their way.  Stinthäd went off to “sleep”,
while Nomal is watching “sparring practice” (the other two are
starting a striking demonstration).  Let me just summarize by saying
we’re, at least in part, young and healthy enough to be frisky.

Our carpenter Glazedhealed created our first masterpiece, an ashen
training axe.  I hear Stinthäd and Nomal suggested it to Rakust as a
memento of how they met.  (It's a small outpost, word gets around.)

Speaking of small outposts, only five migrants failed to produce a
suitable broker, so we need to decide who will fill the role until
someone better arrives, since the caravan will arrive soon.  Limul
Craftsdrink knows the basics of lying, and plays at judging intent,
which is more than anyone else can say, so we’ll tell her she’s it
(and shouldn’t do anything else) when she wakes up, since the caravan
has arrived.  We plan to trade many chalk and saltpeter mugs, a barrel
of turtle and mussel shell crafts, and a large prase opal.

Writing of arrivals, it just occurred to me that all the migrants so
far have been female.  Should be productive in the family way
relatively soon.

Was not able to get everything we wanted to trade to the depot before
the merchants let us know they’d leave soon.  Limul traded what was
ready, about 4580 urists...  Our first priority is alcohol, so we
asked in return for two barrels of our own type of ale (more of the
same for them, unfortunately) and wine—all they had, unfortunately...
Next on the shopping list is food, so we picked up cheese from
donkeys, water buffaloes, alpacas, yaks, and sheep.  Many plump
helmets, mostly for the seeds.  Cave wheat seeds and rock nuts.  Cave
lobsters and cave fish.  Stacks of prepared giant badger brain (good
eats), giant olm kidney, panda liver, cave crocodile heart, firefly
brain (I think we overpaid), goat tripe, yak kidney, naked mole dog
spleen, mountain goat lung, cow intestines, and llama sweetbread...
Two steel anvils for the forges...  Gypsum plaster for the hospital...

[FUCK.  Pressed t too soon, focus on wrong window.  Killed DF
(corrupted program?).  Reset to Sandstone, the beginning of this diary
entry.  Sigh.]


nb diary emallikot 251
Outpost Emallikot, Sandstone 251, Reg Voiceguild

Building a well in the dining room since there was some grumbling.
When we get some more chalk blocks we’ll build another, as well as a
few drawbridges to secure the outpost.

Told the kitchen and still to get back to work, and Rakust to make
many bins.

Planned expanding plat 134 with a vault, refuse room, metal workshops,
and beds.  133 with a stone stockpile and mine entrances, below the
stone work area.  We received by messenger a plan for a noble area,
but there’s no point in hollowing out that now.

Cook and furnace operator Urdim Joybasement added to the hospital
squad as suturer.  Stoneworker Ónul Tattoolabored set to engrave the
dining room and construct funiture.  When Ineth Standardhall is not
acting as our broker (and possibly hauling items), he can potter
around and make lye.  Stone crafter Kadol Bridgegleamed can extract
strands if we should find occasion to praise the miners.  Tekkud
Tinparched will teach in the second melee squad, when he’s not
shearing.

Stinthäd Paddletongs will start the marksdwarf squad, the Messianic
Gears, whose goal will be to shoot through one as it rolls along the
ground.  Since there aren’t any others now, she’ll spend most of her
time hunting, milling, dissecting fish, extracting strands if the
occasion warrants, and designing defenses against sieges.

Litast Pickdashed added as suturer and bone doctor.  Though his skills
hunting might lead him to danger, he has no marksdwarf experience.
He would be better used in hospital, and as tanner, wood burner,
spinner and culminating glazer.  Since there are now three members,
activated the hospital squad.

Bloody peasant Äs Confusepillars can fight better than most at the outpost.
He will haul when he’s not training with the Mechanical Furnaces.

They brought a piglet.
