nb chocolate mod test
Create new world (Udon Satheth) with default settings.  Choose
tropical moist broadleaf forest, warm, heavily forested, thick
vegetation, untamed wilds.  Very deep soil, aquifer, shallow metal,
flux stone.  Default embark.  Idithònul Systemmirrors.  Found no
Theobroma cacao trees found.  Abandon, quit, restart program.

Create new world (Dathalina) with default settings.  Choose tropical
coniferous forest, hot, heavily forested, thick vegetation, wilderness.
Very deep soil, aquifer, deep metal.  Default embark.  Datanèrith
Ironlabored.  Last search I looked for trees instead of plants.

Not in plants or seeds or wood, so I think I need to move it into
plants_standard.txt.  Abandon, quit, restart program.

Create new world (Róth Lathon) with default settings.  Choose tropical
moist broadleaf forest, warm, heavily forested, thick vegetation,
wilderness.  Stream, very deep soil, aquifer, flux stone.  Default embark.
Zimkelstinthäd Plainstheater.  Found a red shrub that looks like a
cacao tree (if it's a cacao shrub, should be green).  Theobroma cacao
tree is listed at the end of Plants.  Cacao seeds are listed at the
end of the Seeds menu.  Cacahuatl is listed at the end of the Drink
(Plant) menu.  Cacao Sugar is listed at the end of the Milled Plant
menu.  Cocoa Liquor is listed at the end of the Extract (Plant) menu.
Built a pile for all of these, and around it a still.  Built a farm
plot to see if I can plant and harvest it.  Building barrels for the
liquor and cacahautl.  Stockpiled Theobroma cacao trees and a willow
barrel containing 10 cacahautl.  Stocks show a Theobroma cacao tree,
15 cacahautl, and 3 cacao seeds.  Built quern.  Sockpiled cacao seed
barrel, 4 cacahautl barrels.  Haven't yet seen extracted cocoa liquor,
or grown Theobroma cacao trees.  Was able to make 4 cacao sugar.

Changed Theobroma cacao tree to cacao pods.  Changed shrub color to
green and picked color to yellow.  Extracting doesn't seem to work,
even with plant ready.  So maybe mill to paste cocoa mass instead.
Mix in rock nut template.

Consider milled rock salt to crystal salt, and add to chocolate
confection.

Save, quit, restart program.  Create new world to reflect recent
changes.

Reconcile with an outside pickable plant, like BERRIES_STRAW_WILD or
BERRIES_FISHER or BERRY_SUN.  Take out SHRUB lines at end.