nb forum thread discuss couverture chocolate mod
http://www.bay12forums.com/smf/index.php?topic=100192.0


nb flow diagram produce cocoa chocolate 
591: Flow diagram of cocoa and chocolate production (fig. 17.1).


nb chocolate mod workshop plan story task test status
http://www.bay12forums.com/smf/index.php?topic=100192.0

I'm actually skipping tempering as a distinct step, since I'm not sure
where it should be done (probably kitchen), or whether I want to
create yet another material (not really).

References:
Brown, A.  2009.  Good eats: The early years.  Stewart, Tabori and Chang.
Wood, G.A.R.  and Lass, R.A.  2001.  Cocoa, 4ed.  Blackwell Science.


nb _todo pulp bean still alcohol  reaction chocolate mod
alcohol: cocoa pulp, cocoa nib
	still
	# Cocoa 452, 583; Wikipedia Chocolate


nb _todo nib quern millstone mass liquor  reaction chocolate mod
cocoa mass/liquor: cocoa nib
	quern/millstone grind 
	# Cocoa 591


nb _todo mass liquor screw press cake butter  reaction chocolate mod
cocoa press cake, cocoa butter: cocoa mass/liquor
	screw press
	# Cocoa 591


nb _todo press cake quern millstone powder  reaction chocolate mod
cocoa powder: cocoa press cake
	quern/millstone mill sieve
	# Cocoa 591


nb _todo butter mass nib sugar milk kitchen crumb  reaction chocolate mod
$chocolatetype crumb: cocoa butter, cocoa mass/nib, dwarven sugar, milk
	kitchen mix
	# Cocoa 594; Good Eats 69.  Apparently crumb is only for milk chocolate, but to keep it simpler I put it for both.


nb _todo crumb type quern millstone chocolate  reaction chocolate mod
$chocolatetype chocolate: $chocolatetype crumb
	quern/millstone grind conch
	# Cocoa 594; Good Eats 69


nb europe milk chocolate recipe industry scale ingredient quantity
541: Manufacture of a typical European milk chocolate (fig. 15.1).


nb cacao sugar
Quotes from pages of Wood, G.A.R.  and Lass, R.A.  2001.  Cocoa, 4ed.
Blackwell Science.

269: However, beans from infected ripe pods may affect the
fermentation process as they have less sugar in the pulp and a higher
free fatty acid content (Maclean 1953).

444: Analyses have shown that sugars build up during the last 30–40
days before the pod is fully ripe which emphasises the importance of
harvesting ripe pods.

452: The pulp is initially sterile but the presence of sugars and the
high acidity—pH 3.5—due to citric acid, provide ideal conditions for
the development of micro-organisms, a wide range of which invades the
mass of beans through the activity of fruit flies and contamination
from the fermentary.

Initially, conditions within the mass of beans are anaerobic and this
favours yeasts of which some sixteen species have been identified on
cocoa.  The yeasts convert most of the sugars in the pulp to alcohol,
a reaction which produces a large amount of carbon dioxide.

453: The sugars, initially about 11 per cent, are rapidly metabolised
and reduced to 1-2 per cent during the first 24-48 hours.

458–459: This indicates that the unripe pods used in this trial were
not fully developed and presumably the pulp was deficient in sugar.

460: It has recently been realised that fresh beans can vary
considerably in the ratio of pulp to bean and in the amount of sugars
per bean.

461: Pulp/bean ratio: Amazon 1.53 g (12 samples); Amelonado 0.93 g (23).
Sugars/bean: Amazon 243 mg (12); Amelonado 137 mg (15).

Beans with more pulp will restrict gas exchange and make the mass of
beans more anaerobic and the greater amount of sugars may lead to
larger amounts of acids in the cotyledons at the end of fermentation
(Carr et al.  1981).

472: The difference lies in the amount of pulp and the quantity of
sugars per bean, Amazons having more pulp and sugars than Amelonado.

474: The effect of pressing is to reduce the amount of sugar available
to micro-organisms and to make the mass of beans more permeable to air
so that there is a quicker rise in temperature.

476: These differences are related to the presence of larger amounts
of acetic and lactic acids and these in turn arise partly from larger
amounts of pulp and sugars.

477: The two main causes for slimy fermentations are unripe pods and
exposure of the wet beans to rain; both these factors will lead to low
sugar content in the pulp and a less suitable base for the usual
micro-organisms.  Slimy fermentations are unusual, but if they occur,
sugar or molasses should be added to the fermenting mass; if fruit
flies are absent from the fermentary, they can be attracted by
suspending a stem of overripe bananas in it.

583: The high content of reducing sugars in sweatings means that they
have an extremely high chemical oxygen demand so that large units for
fermentation may create pollution problems (Adams et af.  1982).
