nb chocolate mod test
Create new large world Defíni Etha to get latest changes to raw files.
Tropical coniferous forest, temperate, heavily forested, thick
vegetation, wilderness.  Stream, clay, deep soil, shallow metal, deep
metal, flux stone.  Default embark to Egensibrek Giftsalve.  Told
stoneworker to mine, and jeweler and fish cleaner to press, cook,
process and gather plants, brew, mill, and grow.


nb chocolate mod test
Create new large world Emeelathu to get latest change (fix sugar
reagent quantity and item token) to raw files.  Tropical coniferous
forest, warm, heavily forested, thick vegetation, untamed wilds.
Brook, clay, deep soil, deep metals.  Default embark to Tathtattulon
Plungeroads.  Told stoneworker to mine; and jeweler and fish cleaner
to press, cook, process and gather plants, brew, mill, and grow.
Designated 2 11x11 rooms off entry area for couverture production.
Built fishery and carpenter (barrels, chair).  Build stoneworker
(quern), mechanic (screw press), crafter (rock jugs), still (cacahautl
and seeds), quern (cocoa mass), screw press (cocoa solids and cocoa
butter), kitchen (couverture). 

Kitchen: 4 cacao pod (brewable, not cookable).

Ask fish cleaner to be bookkeeper, assigned chair, set medium
precision.

Kitchen: 5 cacao nib, 4 cacao sugar.  Stocks: 4 cacao sugar (powder),
5 cocoa mass (glob).

Turn on press.

Kitchen: 5 cacao nib, 3 cocoa butter, 4 cacao sugar.  Stocks: 4 cacao
sugar (powder), 3 cocoa butter (liquid), 2 cocoa mass (glob), 3 cocoa
solid (glob).

Should have everything I need for couverture: cocoa solid, cocoa
butter in a container, cacao sugar.  No fat yet for other types, so
built a butchery.  Created container stockpile for barrels, buckets,
boxes and bags, bins, coffins, cabinets, armor stands, and weapon
racks.

Couverture from cocoa butter
	+Unrotten +COUVERTURE_MAT-producing +glob: cocoa mass or cocoa solid
	+Unrotten +COUVERTURE_MAT-producing +liquid: cocoa butter
	+Cocoa butter-containing item: siltstone jug with cocoa butter
	+Unrotten +COUVERTURE_MAT-producing +powder: cacao sugar

Kitchen: 5 cacao nib, 5 cocoa butter, 4 cacao sugar.  Stocks: 4 cacao
sugar (powder), 5 cocoa butter (liquid), 2 cocoa mass (glob), 5 cocoa
solid (glob).

Permitted mountain and plains entities to make chocolate crafts.
Double-checked that each could also make couverture from either
cocoa butter or fat.


nb couverture production layout plan
cocoa liquor (plant extract)
cacahautl (plant drink)
still
[]
cacao pod (plants)

cocoa butter (plant extract)
cocoa solid (pressed material)
cocoa mass (paste)
[Quern, screw press]
cocoa seeds (seeds)

crafter
couverture (fat)
kitchen
[]
cacao sugar (milled plant)


nb chocolate mod test
Create new large world Ötstuxstrasp to get latest change to raw files.
Tropical moist broadleaf forest, warm, heavily forested, thick
vegetation, untamed wilds.  Stream, some soil, deep metals.
Default embark to Ònulalen Mirroredmoth.

Kitchen: 4 cacao pod.  Stocks: 2 cacao pod, cacao pod [2] (plants).

Failed to extract.  Cacao pod in still produced cacahautl in barrel.
Activated quern to mill cacao pod into cacao sugar in bag, and cacao
seeds into cocoa mass (need both for couverture).  Make rock jugs at
crafter for cocoa butter from screw press.

Kitchen: cacao nib, cacao sugar, 5 cacahautl, 2 cacao pod, 2 cacao
seeds.  Don’t cook cocoa nib (no couverture?), cacao sugar (no
couverture?), cacahautl; cacao pod and seeds already don't cook, but
cocoa pod brews (disable brew, default cookable?).  Stocks: cacao pod
[2] (plants), cacao sugar (powder), cacahautl [5] (drinks), cocoa mass
(glob), 2 cacao seeds (seeds).

Activated screw press to press cocoa mass into cocoa solid, and cocoa
butter in a rock salt jug.

Kitchen: cocoa butter, 3 cacao sugar, 3 cacahautl, cacao pod,
5 cacao seeds.  Stocks: cacao pod (plants); cacao sugar [2],
cacao sugar (powder); 3 cacahautl (drinks); cocoa butter (liquid);
cocoa solid (glob); 5 cacao seeds.

Can make chocolate crafts, even though I don't have couverture yet.
Next regen the COUVERTURE_CRAFT reaction class should limit it to
just couverture, for when I successfully make some.

Kitchen: 4 cacao nib (no cook), cocoa butter (no cook), 4 cacao sugar
(no cook), 3 cacahautl (no cook), 4 cacao seeds (no cook).  Stocks:
cacao sugar [2], 2 cacao sugar (powder); cacahautl [3] (drinks); cocoa
butter (liquid); cocoa solid, 3 cocoa mass (glob); 4 cacao seeds
(seeds).

Should have enough for a cocoa butter couverture.  Turn off meals,
to turn on cook for couverture ingredients (cocoa butter, cacao sugar,
cocoa solid [pressed cacao nib]).
