Fool.  A student with a lantern in a dark library.  Cartoon style.

Magus.  Abdul Hazrat.  Well-kept, devout, not ostentatious Arab
religious scholar at height of Islamic culture.  Intricate Arab
mathematical tile patterns in background, but wrong somehow,
as if the math doesn't quite work.  Sketch style.

Priestess.  Keziah Mason.  Obviously completely insane hag, wearing
plain homespun clothes of Salem at the time of the witch trials.
In a goal smearing an undefined red substance on the walls, not blood.
The geometry of the corner of the cell is wrong, somehow.
Woodblock style.

Emperor.  Degenerate Neanderthal look.  As subtle as possible,
while being undeniable that the face is wrong.  ― style.

Lovers.  Dirty-clawed hairy hand tenderly holding webbed slimy hand.
― style.

Intuition.  Student with hands over ears, closed eyes and mouth.
Cartoon style.

Priest.  The Black Man.  Woodblock style.

Empress.  Innsmouth look.  As subtle as possible, while being
undeniable that the face is wrong.  ― style.

Chariot.  Elder sign from badger hoodie.  Worn, tarnished, ancient
metal badge style, on a worn leather background.  Photographic.

Hermit.  Outsider.  I have a photo of a child's green tattered zombie
costume lurching toward the camera.

Adjustment.  Three students force open books at the fourth.
Cartoon style.

Fortune.  Mayan calendar wheel.  Photographic.

Fortitude.  A manic student reaching from a pile of books for another.
Cartoon style.

Traitor.  Student climbing out a high library window.  Cartoon style.

Temperance.  The king in yellow: Seven layers of tattered bright
yellow rags falling in disarray from a thin, hunched figure wearing a
silken, smooth and featureless, pallid mask.  Photographic: A doll
wearing treated fabric, against the background of a fluted granite
column.

Death.  The drowned giant of J.G. Ballard.  Watercolor style.

Devil.  Cthulhu: huge, lidless, expressionless deep-squid eye;
tentacled and wormy mouthparts; tattered leathery bat wings.
Watercolor style.

Truth.  The pale blue dot.  Photographic.

Tower.  Obelisk with unfamiliar heiroglyphs of activities and
creatures better left stylized.  Sketch style.

Moon.  Low tide at pier.  High tide line is mossy, slimy, grown
with fungi like those described in Mountains of Madness. 
Watercolor style.

Star.  Constellation at intersections in complex astro symbol on
badger hoodie.  Faint lines between?  Sketch style on black
background, like a blueprint.

Sun.  Desert, high dunes, no life.  Sketch style.

Judgement.  Robed student spreads open arms to churning storm.
Cartoon style.

Universe.  An Arabian end-blown flute, the ney consists of a piece of
hollow cane or reed with five or six finger holes and one thumb hole.
(The instrument creating a high thin piping to lull Azathoth to sleep.)
Woodblock style.