"Fool.  x0 This card stack has no point sum.  XXIIII This card alone."
When played as part of a card stack, multiply the point sum of the
card stack by zero.  When played alone, on any side or share,
its point value is 24.  This means that it can’t be combined with
any other cards and keep its value of 24.

"Magus I.  Play this card in place of another.  Replay that card."
A player may play Magus to replay other cards, and then use
other cards to replay Magus, et cetera, only so long as it makes
a difference in the card layout.

"Priestess II.  Move one card from one side to another.  Play in
its place."

"Emperor III.  Play on a side.  Share one card from that side."
Move a card from a side into one of the side’s shares.
Emperor may share, because it plays before a card moves.

"Lovers =IIII.  Share between two players.  They share points of
their side cards." Their side cards are not moved to the shared area,
so any card which moves away Lovers cancels the point sharing.

"Intuition V.  Immediately play under a just-played card.  Cancel its
effects, not its points."  Intuition cancels all the effects of any card.
This includes the effects of cards which change point sums,
so such cards are worth just their face point value.

"Priest VI.  Play on a share.  Move one card to another share."
Priest may share, because it plays before a card moves.

"Empress VII.  Play on a share.  Move one card from that share to
its side." A card moves from a share to one of the sides it separates.

"Chariot VIII.  Play in any share.  Move a card stack from one of
its sides to the other."  Play the Chariot to the share between the
source and destination sides.

"Hermit VIIII.  In hand: your turn is next.  Each turn starts by moving
this card to share or side with fewest points." The player dealt Hermit
plays it as the first play of the game.  At the beginning of each turn,
the card alone moves to the share or side with fewest points.  If more
than one share or side has the same number of fewest points, then the
current player decides where to move the card.

"Adjustment X.  Move highest-point card stack to side with fewest points.
Play in its place."  Adjustment is never the highest-point card stack,
because it does not play to a side until after the stack moves.

"Fortune XI. Play on your side.  Each player passes a card stack clockwise."
Fortune may move, because it plays before the stacks move.

"Fortitude 3xXII.  Triple the point sum of this card stack."
Sum the values of all the cards in the stack, then multiply.
Fortitude adds at least 36 points to the card stack it joins.

"Traitor -XIII.  Negate the point sum of this card stack."
Multiply the point sum of the card stack by -1.

"Temperance XIIII.  Play on a side.  Move a card stack from that side
to each of its shares."  Share only as many card stacks as there are
other players.  Temperance may share, because it plays before
stacks move.

"Death XV.  Remove a card from play.  Play in its place."
This card affects Tower and Universe, and other cards in their stacks.
Death removes the card entirely from play, so its effects and points
no longer affect the game.

"Devil XVI.  Move a card stack to each other side from a side.
Play on that side." Move only as many card stacks as there are
other players.  Devil does not move, because it does not play
until after stacks move.

"Truth XVII.  Immediately play under a just-played card.
Each other player clockwise replays that card." A replayed card
added to a stack with Tower stops replaying.  A player may play
Truth to replay other cards, and then use other cards to replay
Truth, et cetera, only so long as it makes a difference in the
card layout.

"Tower XVIII.  This card stack does not move or replay or share."
Tower and other cards in its stack may not be moved, passed,
picked up, replaced, replayed, shared, et cetera, from a stack
containing Tower.  All such cards may die, or have their effects
cancelled by Intuition as they are added to a stack containing Tower.

"Moon XVIIII.  Shuffle and deal a share’s cards to players’ hands.
Play on that share." Pick up all cards on the share.  Play Moon after
you deal all the other cards, so do not shuffle or deal Moon.

"Star 2xXX.  Double the point sum of this card stack."
Sum the values of all the cards in the stack, then multiply.
Star adds at least 40 points to the card stack it joins.

"Sun XXI.  Shuffle and deal a side’s cards to players’ hands.
Play on that side." Pick up all cards on the side.  Play Sun after you
distribute all the other cards.  A player may play Sun to replay other
cards, and then use other cards to replay Sun, et cetera, only so long
as it makes a difference in the card layout.

"Judgement XXII.  Play to a share.  The share’s players switch hand
and position."  The simplest way to do this is to have the two players
put face down their hand of cards on each side, then get up and
sit in each other’s seats.

"Universe XXIII.  Replay all cards from a side.  Play this card on
that side.  It does not move or replay." Play Universe after you
replay all the other cards, so none of the replayed cards are played
on Universe.  While the cards are replayed, the Universe card is
effectively hidden.  Other cards may be moved or replayed from a
stack containing Universe.
	In general, do not move, replace, replay, or share Universe.
Any other cards in Universe’s stack may be affected by a card,
which would separate Universe from a card in his stack, or the
remainder of his stack.
