A nightmare in the library.

You and your friends hid away overnight in the restricted section of
the Miskatonic University library.  Which of you will be the sanest
gibbering idiot in the morning?

Number of players.  2–4 players with a shared area between players
(playtested), 5–8 players with one shared area (not yet playtested).
A single player with enough sufficiently-independent personalities may
play against himself.
	Competitive as it stands, but there could be a coöperative
game lurking in there somewhere, with some rules about how the
remainder of the deck not held by players should play itself.
	Since there is hidden information (the cards in players’ hands),
and cards go in and out of players’ hands during the game, I’m not
sure how well that would translate to remote play.

General rules.  Play Nightmare cards to minimize points on your side
and points shared with each other player.  Follow the order in which
effects are listed on cards, since it makes a difference.  Cards which
affect only one card may affect one card in a stack, limited by the
effects of Obelisk and Azathoth.  In general, cards may join a stack
with Obelisk or Azathoth.

Play area.  In addition to a side for each player, the playing area
consists of a shared area between each player, which makes the playing
area complicated for 5 or more people.  I'm thinking of making it one
shared area for all players if there are 5 or more players.

Scoring.  Points count knowledge, which leads to madness—the fewer
points you have, the more sane you are.  All points on the side of a
player count towards a player’s score.  Half of the points on each of
the areas shared with other players count towards a player’s score.
For one common area, in games of 5 or more players, the number of
points in the share for each player is the total divided by the number
of players, which I think would be the most complicated calculation in
the game.

Winner.  The goal is to have the least points at the end of the game,
which makes the resolution of the game simpler.  To declare a winner,
all players have to count their points only up to the count of the
player with the least points, and then note that they have an
undefined number of additional points.  If your score is less than zero,
you actually retain a functioning mind—congratulations!

Credits.  The names, order, and point values of the cards are most
influenced by the “restored” tarot of the brothers Docters van
Leeuwen.  Most card names are actually in an historical tarot deck.
Lovecraft named Outsider and Azathoth.  Obelisk was inspired by the
Stylist tradition.  Playtest thanks to my family, and willing gamers
of Chicago-area Mensa.
