(1)  The author of this game is Jason Catena, jason.catena@gmail.com.
740 Bayberry Drive, Bartlett, IL 60103.  Cell phone 847 344 5976.

(2) Sharot: A nightmare in the library.  Pronounce sharot (/ˈʃæroʊ/)
to rhyme with tarot (/ˈtæroʊ/).  The title is meant to invoke two key
features of the game (shared play areas, and tarot cards), and be a
new game (series) name not on already on boardgamegeek.com.
The subtitle refers to the flavor of (this instance of) the game:
you need to free yourself of the influence of cosmic horrors
“eating at” your sanity.

(3a) At least 24 tarot- or poker-sized cards, to display point value,
effect text, card name, and possibly variant-tarot art.  This is not
intended to be a complete tarot deck, only the major arcana.
My current playtest cards have just the name of the card, its brief
effect text, and very large roman numerals which greatly help
scanning the board position and adding up scores.  All that said,
I do have art ideas for all cards, divided among several styles.

(3b)  Turn Type: Turn based, minced sequence of play.  Player Mode:
2–4 players with a shared area between players (slightly playtested),
5–8 players with one shared area (not yet playtested).  Only play
tested face-to-face.  Category: Abstract, Horror/Survivor.

(3c)  Epoch: Alternate history (Lovecraftian 1920s).  Scope: One night
in the life.  Tactical scale.  Overhead perspective of what currently
“eats at” each player, minus cards hidden in hand.

(4) “Newly lurching into daylight from Victory Point Games and
designer Jason Catena, Sharot: Nightmare in the Library players
minimize their points from a deck of 24 major arcana moving between
player sides and shared areas between each player, to reduce the
influence of cosmic horrors and possibly save their sanity!”
(I think I managed to make it as breathless, incoherent, and rambling as
the model marketingspeak.  I much prefer the box-back text in 6.;)

(5) Play 24 major arcana from a Lovecraftian tarot, each of which
manipulate cards on the table in a different way, arranged in either a
side for each player or a shared area between each player, all to
minimize the number of points a player accumulates.

(6)  “You and your clever friends hid away overnight in the restricted
section of the Miskatonic University library.  Which of you will be the
sanest gibbering idiot in the morning?  Play 24 major arcana from a
Lovecraftian tarot to manipulate cards you suffer alone or share, to
reduce the influence of cosmic horrors and possibly save your sanity.”

(7)  “Non-Euclidean combinatorics gives you a different starting hand every time!
Ancient and forbidden esoterica reveals two suppressed major arcana!
Set up, counter, undermine, and smash strategies with only 24 cards!
Banish your inner tentacled demons, or at least share them with others!
Small circles of miscreants (2–4) don't share brain damage as a group!
Your night lasts only until all the influences (cards) have been played!”
